Internet search engine Google has expanded its web index by one billion pages increasing its breadth by about one third as it readies itself for tougher competition from Yahoo and Microsoft. Google now spans 4.28 billion web pages up from 3.3 billion pages earlier this week. The California-based company also said that it has enlarged its index of web images to 880 million up from just over 400 million. Even with the expansion Google still fails to capture the constantly expanding constellation of online content by some estimates there are 10 billion pages on the web.  Nevertheless the expansion underscores Google's determination to remain the internet's most popular search engine - a prized position that formidable rivals such as Yahoo and Microsoft hope to capture.  Yahoo - also based in California - has been drawing upon Google's index for the search results on its website since June 2000 but plans to end the partnership before April. Yahoo intends to rely exclusively on search technology it picked up last year after spending more than $2bn (£1.05bn) to buy Inktomi and Overture Services.  Meanwhile Microsoft is spending millions to develop a sophisticated search engine to use on MSN.com in hopes of toppling Google as the king of search.  Google has been regularly upgrading its search engine since its debut in 1998 with a web index of 25 million pages but co-founder Sergey Brin the company's president of technology said the potential threats from Yahoo and Microsoft have added more urgency.  "We have decided to put even more energy into our improvements and have turned up the notch on innovation a bit" Mr Brin said in an interview yesterday.  The upgrades are being made as Google considers a widely anticipated initial public offering (IPO) of its stock later this year. Mr Brin declined to discuss the possible IPO expected to be one of the richest in nearly a decade.  If it occurs a Google IPO could build a bigger war chest for its looming search showdown with Yahoo or Microsoft.  Google has built a sizeable lead since Mr Brin and fellow Stanford University graduate student Larry Page developed a new way to guide internet users to their desired destinations.  Google's websites handled 35 of all web searches in December compared with 27 at Yahoo sites and 15 for Microsoft sites according to the latest data compiled by comScore Media Metrix a research firm. AOL and other websites owned by Time Warner have a 16 share. Those sites largely rely on Google for their search results.  The latest improvements should help Google's search engine maintain its advantage predicted Chris Winfield who runs an internet marketing firm in New York that tracks the search engine industry.  "Having all those extra pages in the index really isn't going to make much difference for average users but it cements in their minds that Google has the best search engine out there and the company isn't just resting on its laurels" Mr Winfield said.  In its latest makeover Google also tweaked the closely guarded formula that determines which websites are most relevant to a search request.  Google has made five significant changes to its algorithmic formulas in the last two weeks Mr Brin said.  The revisions to Google's algorithmic formula are even more important to e-commerce sites than the expanded web index because a ranking on the first page of Google's search results typically generates much more customer traffic than on subsequent pages.  As Google covers more online turf it is also digging deeper into web pages. Roughly 40 of the web pages scanned by Google weren't fully indexed until the latest improvements Mr Brin said. Now all but about 20 of the Web pages that Google covers are fully indexed.