A new battle in the multibillion pound internet search market began today as Microsoft made public its attempt to take on number one search engine Google.  A trial version of the new software went live early this morning and is seen as crucial for Microsoft in its attempts to cash in on the increasingly lucrative search market and position itself for future growth.  Until now Microsoft has relied on technology supplied by Inktomi to power the search engines on its global MSN network of websites which claim 350 million users worldwide.  But last year Inktomi was bought by rival Yahoo which also now owns Overture - the company that supplies MSN's sponsored search listings.  Microsoft's founder Bill Gates vowed two years ago to pour hundreds of millions of dollars into developing its own search technology to match its rivals. Once the site officially launches next year it is likely that Microsoft will ditch both Inktomi and Overture.  The company has been enviously eyeing Google's pre-eminent position in the search market and is keen to ensure that the recently floated upstart does not extend its lead in search onto the computer desktop.  It also hopes to tap into the exponential growth in paid-for search advertising where companies pay to have links to their sites listed alongside existing results. The medium has exploded in the past year with internet search advertising in the UK alone now worth more than cinema advertising.  MSN Search will be available in trial mode from today while the company seeks feedback from users on its performance.  It will search more than five billion web pages and documents using in-house technology developed over the past two years. Google announced yesterday that it had doubled its index to more than eight billion web pages.  MSN said that its search would also answer natural language questions such as "How many inches in a mile" using its bestselling Encarta online encyclopaedia. It will also link directly through to MSN's new music download service. And as with Google users can also search for news and images.  "The release of our beta is a huge step towards delivering the information consumers are looking for faster" said Yusef Mehdi Microsoft vice president for MSN information services and merchant platform.  "With better results and more powerful search tools MSN is creating a new higher standard for online search - one that ensures consumers find the information they need when they need it" he added.  The resurgence of search has been driven by the growing realisation over the past two years that it will continue to drive the way people use the web.  In the early days of the dotcom boom it was assumed that search engines would become less popular as people settled on their favourite sites and portals and navigated between them. As such companies such as then market leader Alta-Vista made the disastrous decision to diversify into other areas.  The subsequent success of Google which has seen shares surge more than 90 since its $1.7bn flotation in August has proved that prognosis spectacularly wrong. Indeed most now believe that search will extend from the internet to the desktop with users searching for files on their computer and on the internet.  Google has already launched a trial version of its own desktop search product which further blurs the lines between the PC and the internet while new companies such as Binkx are springing up with their own innovative search products.  · To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857 · If you are writing a comment for publication please mark clearly "for publication".