A shrinking world got considerably smaller yesterday. Google a company spawned in a garage of two university students in California just seven years ago announced a new service that will allow you to telephone your mother in Australia free of charge as long as she too is a Google user. That is just the start. The company with a market capitalisation of $78bn has ambitions to colonise the living room and to apply the phrase "to Google" to every activity that occurs within it. In addition to the telecom move it also launched an improved version of its desktop search software this week that helps users to organise all the files on their computer and constantly suggests useful web links and documents pertinent to whatever you happen to be doing at the time. The rate of new launches has increased further since its high profile flotation last year. With each new service Google and its student founders Sergey Brin and Larry Page encroach a little bit more on the territory of Bill Gates and Microsoft the software giant that powers 95 of the world's computers. The question now is whether the young upstarts who have built a hugely profitable business on Google's anti-corporate image are on the way to following Microsoft's founder's path from bright young turk to monopolistic behemoth. Interbrand a company that measures the relative worth of the world's main brands calculates that Google is the 38th most valuable at $8.46bn. While this is a long way behind Microsoft estimated to be the second most valuable brand at $59.94bn Google's ascension is remarkable for a company that is so young and has spent next to nothing on marketing. Already there are whispers in California's Silicon Valley that it is becoming too much like Microsoft the technology firm that every teccie loves to loathe. While there is a significant crop of sour grapes in the mix - not helped by last week's news that Google is selling a further $4bn worth of shares to fill a "war chest" - Google is also attracting unfamiliar epithets such as "arrogant". Its sheer financial power and need for engineers to create new products has sent salaries in Silicon Valley rocketing as it poaches staff. It has already ended up in a court battle with Microsoft over the fate of Dr Kai-Fu Lee the developer of MSN's search engine whom Google poached from the Seattle-based software giant. Dot.com start-ups are also finding it increasingly difficult to persuade potential financial backers that their prospective markets will not be squashed by the might of Google. Mr Gates put the knife in earlier this year when in an interview with Fortune magazine he said Google was "more like us than anyone else we have ever competed with". Microsoft and Google are battling it out for control not only of the way we use our computers organise and retrieve information and communicate but ultimately for the way we consume audio and visual entertainment content and make telephone calls. It is a battle that will take place on a global scale from the US to Europe to the far east and the huge emerging market in China. Julian Smith European online advertising analyst at Jupiter Research said "Google has evolved from a technology provider into a media owner; now they are evolving and trying to expand that into a portal play offering additional functions and functionality to try and emulate the likes of MSN." There is a lot to play for in the online advertising market. Paid for search in which advertisers pay to have links to their websites displayed alongside search results is the fastest growing segment of the market which itself is growing faster than print or television advertising. Last year the online advertising market was worth upwards of $15bn worldwide with paid-for search accounting for just under a third and Google taking the lion's share. It made $3.2bn in revenues. "The battleground between Google Microsoft and also Yahoo is trying to get the hearts and minds of the online user. It's about maintaining search loyalty" Mr Smith said. Google's expansion comes at a time when media entertainment internet and telecom companies are increasingly treading on one another's toes. Industry analysts believe that there are signs that the long mooted convergence between various home entertainment devices and technologies is finally coming to pass. "That's the key battle the battle for the home" said Jerome Buvat a strategic business consultant in media telecoms and entertainment at Cap Gemini. "You've got mobile operators offering access at home unbundlers [new companies taking advantage of regulatory intervention to access telephone exchanges] offering triple play services and incumbents offering a range of services from home security to video on demand." Microsoft and Google are far from the only companies involved in this battle. The News Corp mogul Rupert Murdoch has set aside $2bn to accelerate his online ambitions. Under the leadership of a former Hollywood executive Terry Semel Yahoo has been reborn and has similar ambitions to become the jumping off point through which people access entertainment music community and communications services. It has already launched a telephony service in the UK. Yet industry experts believe Google is still set fair. Telecom analysts Ovum said "If Google succeeds in converting enough of its Gmail users to Google Talk PC phone customers it has the brand strength and market presence to move into a much broader range of multimedia services. But given its newly inherited responsibilities to shareholders some analysts wonder whether Google might repeat the mistakes of its forbears. Its critics point to the way in which it is starting to behave more and more like the conglomerates it once sought to differentiate itself from. "Everyone loves a great story" said Rita Clifton chairman of Interbrand UK. "It'll only become a problem if you start looking like a mega corp. They are walking a delicate tight rope."  The giants in numbers How they shape up  Google  $10bn  Estimated worth each of Sergey Brin 31 and Larry Page 32 who launched Google commercially in 1998 229 Gain in share price on first year as a publicly quoted firm from $85 to $280 98 Gain in revenue after first year as a publicly quoted company from $700.2m to £1.38bn 4183 Staff worldwide $399.1m Company's 2004 net Income 60 Proportion of people using the Google search engine for online search inquiries in the UK. The figure for the US is 36.5 Microsoft $46bn  Estimated worth of chairman Bill Gates 49 who founded the company in 1975 294 Gain in share price on first year as a publicly quoted firm from $21 to $82.75 59 Gain in revenue after first year as a publicly quoted firm $94m to $143.8m 57000 Staff worldwide $12.254bn Company's 2005 net income 10 Proportion of people using MSN Search Microsoft's search engine for online searches in the UK. The US figure is 15.5 How VoIP works · People can chat to friends on a telephone headset or phone connected to their computer without using phone companies and incurring charges. · By downloading free software from Google's website users will be able to use the service to talk to friends. It will show when people you have added to your electronic address book are online so you can instantly click and chat. · The system uses Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) which in simple terms turns your computer into a phone. · It takes analogue audio signals and converts them into digital data that can be transmitted over the internet. This is converted back to an audio signal at the other end.