Microsoft last night filed a lawsuit against one of its former top search executives with direct knowledge of its "trade secrets" after he quit the software firm to join Google intensifying the firms' rivalry.  The suit was filed on the same day that the internet search engine announced it had hired the executive Dr Kai-Fu Lee to head up its first research and development centre in China. The suit also names Google which it says "intentionally assisted Lee". Microsoft claims that Dr Lee broke a non-compete clause in his contract by going to work for Google. At Microsoft Dr Lee had overseen development of the company's MSN search technology including a desktop search service released earlier this year. "Accepting such a position violates the non-competition promise Lee made when he was hired as an executive" Microsoft said in its suit. "Google is aware of Lee's promises to Microsoft but has chosen to ignore them and encouraged Lee to violate them." Microsoft said his contract obliged him not to work for a direct competitor for at least one year. A number of senior executives have left Microsoft and other hi-tech firms to join Google enticed by its rapid growth and a creative environment that allows all of its engineers to work on their own projects one day a week. Microsoft is locked in a fierce battle with Google and Yahoo to dominate the online search market. Coincidentally search is the fastest growing online advertising market. Google also does not appear to be content with just remaining a search engine. Earlier this year the company announced the launch of its personalised home page for users pitching it into direct competition with MSN and the Yahoo portal. Dr Lee had founded Microsoft's R&amp;D operations in China before becoming vice-president of its natural interactive services division. Microsoft added "As a senior executive Dr Lee has direct knowledge of Microsoft's trade secrets concerning search technologies and China business strategies. He has accepted a position focused on the same set of technologies and strategies for a direct competitor in egregious violation of his explicit contractual obligations." Earlier Google had bragged of its hiring describing Dr Lee as a "respected computer scientist and industry pioneer" who will "lead the operation and serve as president of the company's fast growing Chinese operations". It had no immediate response to the suit.