Is Google getting too big for its boots The phrase 'to Google' has almost passed into the vernacular as meaning to use any internet search engine - never mind that there are competitors such as Yahoo. With news of the company's launch of web-based telephone services and the accompanying hype you could be forgiven for thinking that Google is fast becoming omnipresent. In the world of business everyone seems to be talking about Google - its power its wealth and its phenomenal rise to become one of the world's biggest companies valued at a staggering $50 billion. At the same time stories have rolled in thick and fast in the last six months about Google poaching the top talent in Silicon Valley reducing the prospects for budding entrepreneurs to offer serious competition. According to its critics Google has become a monster in the making a caricature corporate villain. I do not go along with these arguments. Ask your average punter what he or she thinks of Google and I would wager that the response would be overwhelmingly positive. Unlike other search engines Google is careful not to drown users with advertising. Its homepage for instance is devoid of promotions. Besides just what is wrong with a company that offers a gateway to instant knowledge free of charge In a fascinating new book entitled The Search (published by Nicholas Brealey) John Battelle says hundreds of millions of people use Google to 'satisfy their wants needs fears and obsessions' creating an enormous artefact which Battelle calls 'the database of intentions'. All this is not to say that Google can afford to sit on its laurels. Life has moved on. The company was once seen as the cheeky upstart the new boy on the block who arrived much later than Yahoo Lycos AltaVista and other pioneers. Because it is now more Goliath than David Google needs to be careful. It is trite to say it but you don't get to the top without making enemies. Google must work hard to live up to its corporate motto 'Don't be evil'. It has already made one mistake by announcing plans to digitise some 15 million books from the collections of leading libraries prompting accusations from publishers that the company was thumbing its nose at copyright law. The company has put the project on hold to give copyright-holders time to prepare lists of titles that they don't want scanned. With power comes responsibility. That's why Google must watch its step; but the company stands out in my mind as an astonishing commercial and consumer success story. For now. Rentokil stalker needs more flesh on its bones Sir Gerry Robinson is not a man to dismiss lightly. As a former head of Granada who took over LWT and Forte in the 1990s he knows a thing or two about business. But his plan to seize control of Rentokil an underperforming industrial services company does not altogether stack up. New Rentokil boss Doug Flynn has been there only four months and many investors think he should be given more time to sort out the problems he inherited from Sir Clive Thompson ousted last year. But it is the way Robinson has planned his assault that worries me. Under his tentative proposals his investment vehicle Raphoe Management would take a minority stake in Rentokil while Robinson would become executive chairman replacing Brian McGowan and presumably Flynn as well. But why would shareholders want to hand over even 5 percent of the company worth a cool £150m to Robinson They might be willing if they thought Flynn was utterly incapable of delivering a turnaround strategy. But even then wouldn't it be cheaper simply to find a new chief executive Robinson has so far declined to put any flesh on his plans so we are going to have to wait and see what he comes up with. But one thing is certain having Robinson lurking in the background is a boon for investors they can use his putative bid as a stick to force Flynn to break up and sell this ragbag collection of businesses and hand the dosh to shareholders. If Flynn doesn't do it Gerry is waiting to do it for them. Then everyone will be richer. Fabulous. No one won despite making a meal of it The arguments between BA the T&amp;G and Gate Gourmet have appeared like a scene from Reservoir Dogs everyone has their guns pointed but who fires first Actually logic always dictated that no one would dare to pull the trigger hence the tentative agreement reached this weekend. This was always a game where no one could win. The reasons are simple BA has only one in-flight caterer so it was as prepared for this fight as the Americans were on the eve of Pearl Harbor. The T&amp;G had limited wriggle room with Gate Gourmet because if the caterer was pushed into administration the union would risk bringing unemployment to even more of its members than were sacked earlier this summer - the event which sparked the dispute. Finally Gate Gourmet's financial backers including private equity group Texas Pacific have their reputations to protect. How much is there to be won if they are perceived as having acted in a heavy-handed hamfisted fashion a perception shared by a significant proportion of the British public. Frankly this fight has come too early; no one was ready for it because none of the parties had a plan B that could be implemented quickly. The real fight between BA and the unions will have to wait for the arrival of chief executive-elect Willie Walsh former boss of Aer Lingus in October. He will have learnt from this summer that it pays to have a fall-back plan - but so too will the unions. It's not going to be easy but I get the feeling we are heading for a final showdown.