So Microsoft has finally launched its search engine MSN Search. Because search is a key strategic area and because anything Microsoft does is deemed newsworthy the result was acres of newsprint and megabytes of web coverage.  Thus far the commentary has not been very enlightening. On the one hand there are the frustrated sports journalists who always write about these things as if reporting a prize fight. Will the 800lb gorilla (Microsoft) slay plucky upstart (Google) Then there are the hacks who are training to be investment analysts full of pompous hooey about whether Microsoft's capacity to 'bake' MSN Search into Windows will enable it to 'leverage' the operating system monopoly and destroy Google.  A few decided to try the 'head-to-head' contests so beloved of consumer magazines. 'What is the distance between London and Lima' inquired the Daily Telegraph. MSN came up with 61000 links. The first few offered links to a sports betting website a shopping directory a cancer charity a travel agency and Cambridge University Students' Union. Google came up with 110000 links the first of which provided an answer (6320 miles). Another inquiry concerned the name of King Alfred's wife. MSN offered a link to its Encarta website but the answer wasn't there. Google 'won' by suggesting several history sites - the first of which named Alfred's queen as Elswith 'a variant of the more commonly used Ealhswith'. And so it went on.  Let us try a different tack. We start by clearing our minds of wonderment. Google seems terrific to us partly because it is so much better than what went before but mainly because it performs so well on simple kinds of queries. If you know someone's name then it's easy to Google him or her before agreeing to a date. If you can't remember who wrote a particular book - well Google will find it.  And this kind of memory prosthesis is wonderful in its way. But it's also exceedingly primitive as you find whenever you embark on a search that is unspecific or vaguely conceived. Google is like a promethean idiot savant who can memorise a million pages a second and never forget a word - but who doesn't understand a single thing.  If search technology is to develop into something that can do more than online fact-checking and retrieval it has to cross the chasm which separates dumb computing from intelligent reasoning.  As far as I can see there are basically only two ways in which that can happen.  The first is to arrange that web pages provide more useful information than they do at present. Currently they are mostly just raw text (plus images). But for years Tim Berners-Lee the inventor of the web has been campaigning for what he calls 'the semantic web' - in which the information encoded in pages is structured in such a way that even relatively dumb search engines can draw intelligent inferences from them .  Thus it would be immediately obvious that a web page about Casablanca referred to the movie not the city. To some extent this is already happening via the use of XML - the so-called 'extensible markup language' that supplements HTML.  The semantic web will help but it won't lift search technology to the point where it becomes as useful as interrogating a human expert. For that to happen search engines have to know more about their users.  A useful analogy here comes from natural language processing. The problem with language is that it is ambiguous. This often stumps computers. Humans are good at it because they know about the context in which something is being said. The way to boost machine understanding is therefore to provide more context - which is why the technology works best in highly specialised domains where the context is limited and easy to articulate.  What this suggests is that for a search engine to be really powerful it has to know a lot about the user and the context of the inquiry. What's the purpose of the query What does the user already know Where has she looked earlier How good are her cognitive skills And so on.  This is all highly personal information but to get really powerful searching users will have to be willing to entrust it to the search engine. So in the end the question of which engine will win out is only incidentally about technology. It's basically about trust - who would you trust with intimate knowledge about yourself and your online life You only have to ask the question to know the answer. &amp;#149 john.naughton@observer.co.uk &amp;#149 www.briefhistory.com/footnotes