Google this morning unveiled a new service aimed at boosting its presence on millions of websites around the world. The new facility called Google Co-Op will allow users and businesses to build customised search engines which can be placed on their own website. The company said that the system lets people create a tailored list of favoured websites that can be used to provide search listings. "We know that users don't always start their searches on Google.com - they're all over the web" Google said. "We've already offered Google's engine to people but this allows them to create custom engines for their own content." While the Californian search giant currently allows anyone to place an unfiltered version of its engine on websites for free Co-op allows those who sign up to pick their own content or take particular slices of the internet. The service is free but Google displays text adverts alongside all the results just like its normal pages. Users can choose to take a chunk of the profit made from these by signing up to the company's AdSense revenue-sharing programme which has already seen it advertise on thousands of websites and blogs. Only government sites registered non-profit organisations or educational establishments will be allowed to run Co-op search without advertising. Eric Schmidt Google's chief executive recently called a moratorium on new developments by the firm saying it needed to focus on providing better versions of its existing projects. And the company's underlying search engine has come under fire for becoming increasingly plagued by spam websites and other forms of manipulation. Although a spokesman said that Google would not immediately use the information gained through Co-Op to improve its core listings the project's chief engineer admitted that it could be the first step in an overall evolution of online search. "One reason to build this product is to get the community involved and use the wisdom of crowds" said RV Guha. "It's certainly going to be useful." · To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332. · If you are writing a comment for publication please mark clearly "for publication".