Google is expanding its controversial Google News service with a searchable archive that spans articles from the past 200 years. The Google News Archive Search which launched today will allow consumers to find articles on historical events of interest - such as the England 1966 World Cup win or President Kennedy's assassination - that were written at the time. Searches can be expanded to show coverage from a time period or be narrowed to articles from a particular publication. The current Google News service offers only a 30-day archive while the archive service offers access to articles as far back as "the mid-1700s". Partners in the project include the Wall Street Journal New York Times and Washington Post. Other sources include aggregators such as Factiva owned by Dow Jones &amp; Reuters and LexisNexis. Anurag Acharya a Google engineer who worked on the project said the aim was to allow people to "explore history as it unfolded". Google has sought permission from news sites that have paid-for content requirements - such as the WSJ.com website - to display extracts from their articles so users can then decide if they want to pay for the whole piece. For other free access sites Google uses web trawl technology to pull results from archives automatically. The archive service searches hundreds of different news sources to answer a user's query although the exact number of sources is confidential. In February the World Association of Newspapers announced it was considering legal action against Google News. It argued that the global aggregation service which displays major news headlines and a snippet of text was "building a new medium on the backs of our industry without paying for any of the content". Jim Gerber the content partnerships director at Google argued that the extension did not pose a further threat to news companies. "The gut instinct may seem like it is positioned as competitive to aggregators but as you can see we have aggregator partners on board. At the end of the day this points traffic back to partners and that can be very valuable" he said. The new service will be accessible at Google News and through a dedicated link to the archive. Crucially in terms of potential traffic to partner sites if the service proves popular selected queries on the main Google search page will integrate the top three relevant related partner articles with results returned. · To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857 · If you are writing a comment for publication please mark clearly "for publication".