Google is challenging Coca-Cola and Microsoft for global fame after becoming the fastest growing brand in the world only eight years after it was set up in a California garage by two college friends. The search engine has dispelled the cynical boom-to-bust view of internet ventures and now outranks old media stalwarts such as Sony MTV and Reuters in terms of worldwide renown according to Interbrand the brand consultancy. A survey of the world's best global brands published yesterday pointed to Google's "almost limitless" potential as a company that has expanded beyond search and into email advertising and aerial maps. The $117bn (£63bn) business is ranked 24th by Interbrand one year after it first entered the top 100 of the annual brand survey. The survey estimates the proportion of a company's sales that are driven by its brand. "You could argue that Google is pursuing in an online form what Virgin has pursued in the off-line world where it can build franchises outside its own" said John Allert chief executive of Interbrand. "They are trying to demonstrate that they are a brand all about delivery of information. If Google can show that it is more than a search company then its boundaries are almost limitless." Going in the other direction is Gap an equally ubiquitous brand that has been hampered by poor sales and an image as bland as its pastel polo shirts. It has slipped out of the top 50 in the opposite direction to luxury goods staples Gucci and Louis Vuitton. These high-bling names nurture a veneer of exclusivity that boosts demand whereas Gap has fallen victim to the perception that it is indistinguishable from its rivals. "Gap has become dangerously generic. It is feeling like a brand that has potentially lost its way. It is not a brand that people are wearing with pride in the way they once were and it has become more utilitarian in its use" said Mr Allert. The image prognosis is even gloomier for Kodak a name that has been overtaken by the same forces that swept Google to fame digital media. Kodak's photographic business was ravaged by the rise of the digital camera forcing it to cut tens of thousands of jobs since 2000. It has since embraced the digital world but too late to restore profits in the face of stiff competition - hence its fall down the Interbrand list to number 70. "Of all the brands on the list I would say that Kodak is the most vulnerable" said Mr Allert. The humbling experience of Gap and Kodak is a salient warning for Google whose image was tarnished by one public relations disaster this year. Google has embodied the egalitarian ethos of the internet with its idiosyncratic headquarters where systems engineers played roller hockey in the car park to printing its mantra "don't be evil" in its flotation prospectus. That carefully cultivated image was jolted when the company agreed to filter any information on its Chinese website that it believed would offend the Beijing government. Mr Allert said the outrage that greeted the move - one freedom of expression group described it as "hypocrisy" - underlined the dangers facing a ubiquitous global brand. "It's a sage lesson that scale and success bring visibility and expectations particularly when Google have put themselves out there on the ethical high ground" he said. "We have seen this with Microsoft. As soon as you are of a certain ubiquity you can easily fall foul of incidents that can have a disproportionately negative impact on the brand." According to the survey Google's brand is worth $12.4bn to the company - a considerable achievement for a business that rarely advertises on TV radio or billboards. Conventional brand-building wisdom states that selling a product to an entire country let alone the world requires considerable investment in advertising campaigns sponsorship and public relations. Google appears to have dodged the old axiom about advertising - 50 of it is wasted but no one knows which 50 - by not bothering to advertise at all and relying on the global span of the internet to spread the Google word. Media experts argue that Google will soon have to slum it with other companies on TV screens and in magazine inserts because competitors such as Yahoo and Microsoft will catch up with it. "Once the business matures it will have to advertise. In three or four years' time that will happen" said Neil Jones UK managing director of Carat the media buyer. Indeed the top 25 of the BusinessWeek/Interbrand survey of the best global brands is packed with well established names that are well used to peppering ad breaks and poster sites with their messages. Coca-Cola holds on to number one with a brand value five times larger than Google's and its closest rival Pepsi.