Google this week began delivering the "universal search" - a breakthrough it believes in how people find information online - with the merging of videos news books maps and images into the results of the average query. This latest refinement sounds simple but it isn't. According to the Californian technology powerhouse it is a result of two years' work by more than 100 engineers and involved a major revamp of the company's software platform. A search for Wayne Rooney now delivers a page of findings that includes websites news stories and pictures of the temperamental striker as well as clips from YouTube. In the coming weeks anybody entering a subject such as "Mexican poetry" will get an entire readable book on Mexican poetry from Google Books' library. There will even be "experimental" pilot services allowing users to see a timeline on a subject or a map flagging important locations in an individual's life. Google's billionaire co-founder Sergey Brin says this has been achieved with the company's trademark quirkiness "I think chaos is important in the right proportion. We've always tried to run our company with about 10 to 20 chaos." Up to now Google has been building separate search engines in individual "silos" for different types of media - videos books blogs news maps and pictures. Combining them all means writing code that can measure the relevance of a picture against a piece of text. That means comparing apples to oranges says Google's engineering chief Udi Manber. "Search is hard much harder than you think" says Manber who reveals that an astonishing 20 to 25 of Google searches on any given day are queries that have never been entered by anybody before. Google's self-conscious wackiness is in evidence throughout the "Googleplex" - its headquarters in the wealthy Silicon Valley enclave of Mountain View. Colourful lava lamps are sprinkled throughout the complex and a mock spaceship hangs from the ceiling of the lobby. In communal areas casually clad employees play pool while others sink into vibrating massage chairs. But this is no longer an upstart internet pretender - Google is the new hi-tech establishment often described as the next Microsoft. There are now 12200 people at the company and Brin is keen to be taken seriously "As we've grown there's been more chaos in absolute terms. But then there's the other 80 to 90 - the non-chaotic side the back-end work." Google's shares cost $472 (£239) and the firm's market capitalisation is $146bn. Its success is rapidly bringing enemies. Rival firms complain that Google is sucking all the talent from Silicon Valley as it offers superior pay prospects and working conditions. Broadcasters object that Google's YouTube arm is routinely flouting copyright and even advertisers are murmuring with discontent that the company is building a dominant position through its $3.1bn takeover of internet ads specialist DoubleClick. Rich Skrenta of Topix a leading Silicon Valley news website told the San Francisco Chronicle this week that there was mounting trepidation about Google "It's past fear - it's the stages of grief it's resignation and now everyone's depressed." For the first time in internet history Google surpassed Microsoft to become the world's most visited family of websites in March attracting 528m people compared with the Seattle-based firm's tally of 527m. Curiously Google is doing very well in Britain which was named at its quarterly results as a highlight outside the US. The company's UK boss Dennis Woodside says Britain is a particularly competitive market in travel and financial services both of which lend themselves well to advertising on Google. In addition he says British consumers are highly tech-savvy compared with international neighbours. "The British user has been very willing to adapt to technology quickly" says Woodside. "You see that with mobile handsets - the penetration's very high. It's also the case with social networking sites with video sites and things like [online phone service] Skype." Yet this week's tinkering with Google's search code is a reminder from the company that it needs to keep running quickly to stay ahead of a pack of competitors. Among the pretenders is the Wikipedia founder Jimbo Wales who has set out plans for a collaborative "democratic" search engine. He wants to build on the principles of his online encyclopaedia with a venture allowing users to vote and contribute towards the best responses for any given search query. "The production of good quality search is getting very close to being a commodity - any mid-size company can do it" Wales said recently. He stresses that Google is far from infallible - for example a search for hotels in a city invariably throws up a selection of booking agencies rather than a choice of appealing establishments. Google reckons that adding alternative media such as video particularly its own YouTube content can help differentiate its offering. The company's co-founder points out that somebody Googling information on how to ski would be helped far more by a brief instructional video than by a lengthy piece of text. "YouTube Google Video these various video sites are appreciated because of the diversity of video they offer particularly from an entertainment point of view" says Brin. "But there's an incredible research value to them that's significantly under-appreciated." WPP gets Real WPP yesterday swooped on 24/7 Real Media a New York-based specialist in online advertising. The $649m (£329m) deal is further evidence of the scramble among advertising firms for a share of online spending which WPP estimates will exceed $33bn this year or 8 of global advertising spending. Rival Publicis recently bought American digital and direct marketing company Digitas for $1.3bn while last month Google snapped up DoubleClick for $3.1bn. That deal caused rival Yahoo to spend $680m buying out Right Media in which it already had a 20 stake. 24/7 Media is one of the older players in the online advertising space having originally provided adverts for Yahoo and Netscape back in 1994. As well as helping companies ensure they are well placed on search engines 24/7 provides display advertising across more than 950 websites which together receive 115m monthly unique users. Last year it had revenues of $200m and expects growth of 34 this year. The deal is WPP's largest since its $1.3bn takeover of American advertising group Grey Global two years ago.