The internet search engine Google has been voted one of the top 10 companies students would like to work for in an annual survey published today. The company was a new entry in the Universum UK Graduate survey 2007 which polls the opinions of more than 7500 final and penultimate-year students studying business engineering science IT and the humanities. Google was ranked the sixth ideal employer by engineering science IT and business students and eighth by humanities undergraduates. The internet company was recommended for inclusion in this year's survey by students who can suggest the companies they would like to see added to the list of 130 organisations they are asked to consider as ideal employers. A spokesman for Universum said a large number of students had written in asking for Google to be included in the survey. "In previous years Google was not thought of as an employer of graduates. But now it is spreading its wings and recruiting in Europe it's being voted in by a lot of students in all different sectors." The top spots in the rankings went to the usual suspects - the BBC voted top among engineering science IT and humanities students and accountancy firm PricewaterhouseCoopers ranked number one by business students. The NHS held on to a place in the top five employers among non-business students after rising more than 50 places to reach the number two spot last year. The war in Iraq and trouble in Afghanistan and the Middle East have once again failed to dent students' interest in the Ministry of Defence which was ranked third by engineering science IT and humanities students a climb of two and three places respectively on last year. Humanities students voted the army in at 25th up from 34th last year while the Royal Air Force saw a slight drop in this year's tables from 17th to 21st place by engineering and science students and from 21st to 28th by those studying the humanities. A spokesman from the MoD said the reason for its success was down to the strength of its graduate scheme. "We invest very heavily in graduates making it very possible for them to get a chartership status in their chosen profession within just four years of joining the MoD." Each year students are given a list of 130 employers and choose the five they would like to work for. The rankings are based on how frequently a company appears.  Top five employers engineering/science/IT studentsBBCEnvironment AgencyMinistry of DefenceNHSGlaxoSmithKline Top five employers Humanities studentsBBCCivil serviceMinistry of DefenceRed CrossNHS Top five employers Business studentsPricewaterhouseCoopersGoldman SachsBBCL'OrealErnst &amp; Young