Google has refused to back a web technology being pushed by an international consortium of newspapers and magazines to control how it uses articles and pictures in search listings. A consortium of media trade organisations including the European Publishers Council the International Publishers Association and the World Association of Newspapers have developed a "permissions information" technology called automated content access protocol - or Acap. However Google is insisting that a common technology robots.txt already exists for publishers to use to opt out of the Google News service. "The general view is that the robots.txt provides everything most publishers need" said the European partnership lead at Google Rob Jonas speaking at the MediaGuardian.co.uk Changing Media Summit today. "Until we see strong reasons improving on that … [robots.txt] will get everyone to where they need to be." Such outright resistance from Google to the Acap technology will be a blow to the media consortium which has been vigorously lobbying for some time for major online content aggregators such as Yahoo and especially Google to give it support. Google has been a member of the technical board for Acap. "We are involved in Acap involved in discussions" said Jonas. "We are involved in the working groups." Jonas also said today that many publishers see the Google News service as a fantastic traffic driver that ultimately results in a potential increase in revenue. The dispute between Google and media organisations over how the search giant distributes third-party online content has been rumbling on for several years and in at least one instance had ended up in a court case over copyright infringement. In February last year Google lost a copyright infringement case brought by Copiepresse a group representing copyright holders in Belgium. · To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332. · If you are writing a comment for publication please mark clearly "for publication".