Google Blog Search is probably not a product you use, and you may even feel that the main Google search provides more than enough coverage of blogs. Now, however, Google has redone it more like its Google News site, picking out and ranking the top stories according to the volume and freshness of coverage. The problem is that it's still not really good enough. The Official Google Blog says:   Adapting some of the technology pioneered by Google News, we're now showing categories on the left side of the website and organizing the blog posts within those categories into clusters, which are groupings of posts about the same story or event.   Fair enough, but why doesn't it pack in as much info as Google News? Why does Google Blog Search use a single-column display instead of the far superior double-column template that works well for Google News? Why reinvent the wheel, and do it not as well? It's a mystery. The other problem is that Google News isn't very good, and there is no sign that the new Google Blog Search will be any better. Google News has a fatal flaw, which is that its news is mostly stale. Stories get "voted" to the top of the heap as more and more sites cover them, but Google has no way of finding and displaying the one or two brilliant items you actually want to read. Instead you have to wait until another 50 (or whatever) sites have picked up and repeated a story, making it "popular", by which time the original has been buried in the morass. Google Blog Search seems to have the same problem. For example, the Technology section's "top stories" at the moment include: Apple could close iTunes if royalties rise (on 52 blogs), Steve Ballmer Talks About "Windows Cloud" (on 45), Apple Squashes the iPhone SDK NDA (on 43) and Rotten Apples - Are Some Mac Pros Releasing Toxic Odors? (on 19). That's yesterday's news. (Google Blog Search does have the same option as Google News: you can search for a term and then view entries for the last hour, last 12 hours, and so on. But it's not as useful as it sounds, and I'd bet it's not widely used.) The result is a pale imitation of Techmeme, a successful technology news tracker. Google Blog Search's news isn't as fresh as Techmeme's, it isn't presented as well, and it doesn't look as good.  However, Google Blog Search may still pick up a following. First, it covers a wide range of topics including video games, movies, television and sport. In some areas, it may be better than the alternatives. Second, being part of the Google empire should enable it to attract lots of ordinary users who aren't news junkies, and are perfectly happy to pick up the top stories over the past 12-24 hours.