Google has confirmed it is scrapping its proposed search advertising deal with rival internet company Yahoo after the US Department of Justice indicated that it would block the agreement on competition grounds. Yahoo had been banking on the lucrative deal as proof it was right to reject Microsoft's $45bn (£27.9bn) takeover bid earlier this year.  The company said today it was "disappointed" that Google had not decided to defend the agreement in court. "Google notified Yahoo of its refusal to move forward with implementation of the agreement following indication from the Department of Justice that it would seek to block it, despite Yahoo's proposed revisions to address the DoJ's concerns," said Yahoo in a statement.  "Yahoo continues to believe in the benefits of the agreement and is disappointed that Google has elected to withdraw from the agreement rather than defend it in court." The non-exclusive deal, which Yahoo estimated could generate $800m in annual revenue for its operation, would have seen the internet company surrender some of its advertising space to Google and share revenues. However, the proposed deal immediately sparked concern from rival companies after it was announced in June. The firms feared that the tie-up would further extend Google's already dominant position in online search advertising. The World Association of Newspapers wrote to both European and US competition regulators, while the powerful American trade group the Association of National Advertisers lodged a complaint that the deal would see 90% of search ad inventory controlled from one point. "After four months of review, including discussions of various possible changes to the agreement, it's clear that government regulators and some advertisers continue to have concerns about the agreement," said David Drummond, senior vice president and chief legal officer at Google, in a post on the company's official blog.  "Pressing ahead risked not only a protracted legal battle but also damage to relationships with valued partners. That wouldn't have been in the long-term interests of Google or our users, so we have decided to end the agreement," Drummond added. In September the US justice department hired a top Washington lawyer, Sanford Litvack, to look into a potential competition case into the deal. The move, which some speculated could result in a wider investigation into Google's search ad dominance, raised questions over the likelihood the deal would go through.  Today's scrapping of the search advertising deal is a major blow to Jerry Yang, Yahoo's chief executive, who had sought the partnership with Google to prove the company had strategic options beyond doing a deal with Microsoft. Dissident investor Carl Icahn, now a member of Yahoo's board, was an outspoken critic of Yahoo's rejection of Microsoft's proposal. Last month Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer said a search advertising deal with Yahoo may still be possible, although the two sides are not thought to be involved in discussions. Yahoo's board has continued to look at a number of strategic options.One includes a deal with Time Warner's AOL operation, in which Google holds a 10% stake.Talks have centred on a price for AOL below the $8bn to $10bn that had previously been mooted. · To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332. · If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".