The executive flight from Google (NSDQ: GOOG) in recent months is apparently causing some alarm in Mountain View, and Google is tackling the problem in the only way it knows how: with math formulas. The company has created an algorithm to determine which employees are likely to go next, according to a report in the WSJ. The results are based on employee reviews, pay and promotion histories. Cold, perhaps. But effective. Google says that the system has already identified employees who "felt underused, a key complaint among those who contemplate leaving." It's not clear what exactly Google then does to keep those people around. Google isn't alone in mixing algorithms and HR, according to the WSJ, which quotes an expert who says, "They are clearly ahead of the curve, but a lot of companies are waking up to the fact that there is a lot of modeling that can provide you with critical data on human capital." Google's retention problems have accelerated this year. Among the employees who have left or have said they will leave: top ad-sales exec Tim Armstrong; Asia-Pacific and Latin America president Sukhinder Singh Cassidy; former Doubleclick CEO David Rosenblatt; VP of industry development and marketing Jeff Levick; director of product management Ien Cheng; and director of search and analytics Tom Phillips. From paidContent: • Memo to networks re Hulu: you're making a big mistake • Greylock leaves Boston for Silicon Valley • Industry moves: Kathy Vrabeck to head up Legendary's new digital unit • AP staffers have two months to accept buyouts • Industry moves: Sarah Fay out as Aegis CEO; Isobar's Morris named as replacement • Analyst: Baidu won't take long-Term hit from strike • Microsoft (finally) brings contextual ad program out of beta From paidContent:UK: • Spotify says reports music labels have equity are wrong • Earnings interview: Suranga Chandratillake, CEO, blinkx: losses slimmed, eyeing Canvas • Icelandic games developer predicts $55 million revenues from Eve Online • News bytes: FT.com's studios; Dow Jones hires; BBC mag saved; student papers' crisis • Earnings: Vodafone net profit plunges; emerging markets, Verizon offset European declines • Geldof bids for ITV web-TV regional news contract • Google backing newspapers' bid for consolidation • Digital stores profiting from direct-To-fan music sales