Over the next few days Google search results will be complemented with up-to-the-minute tweets social network updates and blogposts for certain topical searches as Google revamps its search engine and refreshes its results with real-time data. Google is beating its search engine rivals Microsoft's Bing and Yahoo proving to the world that it is still on top of technological developments  driven by real-time publishing on social networks like Twitter and Facebook. Advertisements on Google may soon be tailored to real-time search. But most of all our perception of the world will be changed for the first time there is an archive of the present now - and therefore the Computer History Museum in San Jose was a perfect place to announce the new possiblities of search. During the summer's civil protest in Tehran happened we saw this for the very first time as a host of pictures films and messages were posted online. Suddenly there was an archive of the present –&nbsp;and the journalists were among the first to make use of it.  Until a short time ago our knowledge about the present was limited to personal context combined with a handy summary of the world affairs in the evening news or morning papers.  We never knew much about the actual moment while we could find detailed knowledge about the second world war in every library how the automobile industry was doing back then; what an important role football played for the identity of a nation; there is detailed knowledge of the nutrition of poor children or who was an important player in the development of communication technology which diseases haunted Europe or what the political situation in Africa was and so on.  Complex data could be requested for the past but not for the present - except if you were the American president and had a swarm of experts consultants and thinktanks buzzing around you. That has changed.  Slowly and more or less unnoticed the internet transformed into an archive of the present and now Google is on top of that development.  Slowly indeed. If you didn't know exactly where to look for it took at least weeks back then to find actual information on the internet. Remember we joked about the world wide web –&nbsp;saying its www abbreviation stood for world wide waiting - and that included search engines.  At that time the importance of your webpage was identified via links to your page so it took weeks for a new page to crawl up to the first search result page because at that time you actually couldn't ping Google and say Hello here I am. It wasn't until blogs picture and video platforms like Flickr or YouTube were invented that the present got a hold of the internet. So welcome to the internet present  This archive of the present is a very powerful thing. It provides the public with a more direct voice and it will change journalism profoundly because it adds another possibility to research - verifying real-time results will become an important issue.  This leaves us of course with new problems and questions What can be found What is hidden  Who controls the archive of the present Which economic investments are done and for what reasons Which technological decisions push it in a certain direction  Before we had to be aware of what can be heard. Now with real-time search we have to be aware of what may be present.