World Cup sponsors including Coca-Cola Sony and Adidas have so far failed to associate their brands online with the competition according to research. Fifa's main World Cup sponsorship partners which have paid tens of millions of pounds to link themselves with the event are mostly failing to exploit internet search the research found. The report by agency Tamar said that the key sponsors were not linking their activity to key online search terms and phrases such as "world cup 2010" and "soccer world cup" which the agency found were the most popular search phrases used by consumers on search engines such as Google. Tamar also pointed out that most web users rely on "natural" search results those that are not delivered by advertisers paying to own keywords then delivering ad links. These are the most trusted and get clicked on more than paid-for ads. The brands examined Adidas Hyundai Coca-Cola Emirates and Sony were also failing to leverage exclusive Fifa terminology online. "These companies all have the potential to use liberally the trademarked Fifa World Cup terminology" said Neil Jackson search strategy director at Tamar. "There is a huge volume of traffic surrounding these terms with massive spikes coming up in the near future." Of the five partners examined only Emirates and Adidas are starting to target popular online search terms according to Tamar. However the strategy has not worked to date as when users search the results are not appearing anywhere near the top of search engine listings which is where most consumers click. For example Adidas which makes the official World Cup ball appears on the lower half of page two of the Google search results when the term "World Cup ball" is entered. The visibility of Coca-Cola Hyundai and Sony in natural search results is "currently non-existent" according to the report. Sony has made limited inroads using paid-search tactics to push 3D TVs but it has not optimised the campaign for the "natural" results delivered by Google Yahoo and Bing. "These are all trusted brands with huge global investments in marketing both online and offline yet our findings indicate that they are failing to make the most of the unique online opportunities" said Jackson.