    Google has acquired search startup Aardvark in its latest attempt to improve its standing in the growing social search market. Aardark co-founder and CTO Damon Horowitz confirmed to the Guardian that "we have signed the deal" - but did not comment on the report from Silicon Valley news blog Techcrunch, which first broke the story, that put the value of the acquisition at $50m. The San Francisco-based company - which was founded in 2007 by a group of former Google employees - offers what it calls the chance to "tap the knowledge of people in your network" by matching a user's questions with friends and contacts who might be able to provide an expert answer. Users first link their account to other social networking sites, such as Facebook. When they type a query into the Aardvark search engine - such as "what is the best pizza in Brighton" - the system searches several degrees of friends, determines which individuals could provide the best answer and then contacts them to ask for their advice. While the system so far has only a user base in the thousands - and is reliant on growth to make itself more powerful - it has drawn rave reviews from many quarters for providing a more elegant, personalised solution to searching for information. If the reports of a $50m valuation are accurate, it marks an astonishing price to effectively secure a return to Google for the company's four founders - who had previously worked on products like AdSense and Google Suggest before leaving the search company.  It will also provide a significant return for Aardvark's investors, who pumped nearly $6m into the company last year.  Horowitz told the Guardian last month that the company was actively seeking new investment, and there had been previous rumours that Google was interested in acquiring the company.  The deal marks the Californian internet giant's latest move to improve its standing in the social web, after a series of troubled attempts. Recently the company started including "social circle" results - including photographs, blog posts and other information drawn from a user's contacts - and earlier this week announced Google Buzz, a product that brings many elements of social networking into Gmail. While initial responses to Buzz were largely negative, the company has made it clear that it is making its expansion into social networking and social search a priority.