Google said it appeared to have inadvertently sparked the blockage of search queries from across China this evening reassuring users who feared authorities were shutting off all access in response to the internet giant's decision to close its mainland service. Users had reported that all standard searches on Google's Hong Kong-based service were failing. But it seems that the introduction of a new search parameter which by chance included a sensitive three-letter phrase had triggered an existing keyword filter. It was still possible to search from toolbars on some browsers and to use the advanced search function on the google.com.hk page. However standard searches from the page resulted in the internet connection being reset so that no results were displayed however innocuous the search. Some people appeared to be unable to access the Hong Kong-based search page at all while others found google.com searches also returned error messages. A handful of people reported online that they had been able to conduct some searches unhindered although it was not clear whether they were using the regular service. Google's decision to close its mainland search service saw users redirected to an uncensored Chinese language service hosted in Hong Kong. Beijing's own internet filtering system meant searches using sensitive words were already blocked. A Google spokesman said "Lots of users in China have been unable to search on Google.com.hk today. This blockage seems to have been triggered by a change on Google's part. "In the last 24 hours "gs_rfai" started appearing in the URLs of Google searches globally as part of a search parameter a string of characters that sends information about the query to Google so we can return the best result. "Because this parameter contained the letters rfa the great firewall was associating these searches with Radio Free Asia a service that has been inaccessible in China for a long time hence the blockage. We are currently looking at how to resolve this issue." Bloggers had been quick to spot the new parameter and suggest it was to blame. Google has set up a web page to allow users to monitor the availability of its services in China but its usefulness has been questioned because it indicated that search was still available. In January the company said it was no longer willing to self-censor citing increasing internet censorship and a Chinese-originated cyber attack which it said targeted human rights activists' data as well as intellectual property. Beijing has argued that all governments control internet content and denies any involvement in hacking which is illegal in China. It described Google's decision to close its mainland service as "totally wrong".