Facebook has turned to Microsoft's Bing to power its search - a decision presented by Mark Zuckerberg Facebook's chief executive as partly driven by the idea that Microsoft is "the underdog here" [in search]. Pause for a moment and consider the fact that that's two sectors where Microsoft is considered the underdog first with smartphones and next with search. Certainly it is but it's not how anyone would have expected to be thinking of the company ten years ago. And everyone seems to have foreborne to mention the $240m share stake that Microsoft took in Facebook after some extremely determined negotiating by Steve Ballmer back in October 2007. (Give him credit that was an excellent call.) Bing gets the chance to offer "Liked by your Facebook friends" links in search results (if you're signed into it obviously) Danny Sullivan of Search Engine Land explains it and gives his thoughts   The concept sounds great. Here are sites relevant to my search that my friends people that I presumably trust are effectively recommending to me. What's not to like   For one it's hard to get the Liked Results to appear. Maybe it's that I have no friends who have tagged content that's related to my searches. Maybe Bing sets a really high relevancy bar for when they show it. But after running more than 40 searches fewer than 10 gave me things that my friends liked.  In a webcast Zuckerberg said "The thing that makes Microsoft a great partner for us is that they really are the underdog here and because of that they're in a structural position where they're incentivized to just go all-out and innovate... And when you're an incumbent in an area no matter how smart you are there's just always this tension between trying to innovate and push new things and trying to preserve what you have. And we've never felt that with Microsoft." Uh-huh. Basically this is continuing the tension that exists - that must exist - between Facebook and Google Google wants to get its hands on everyone's information while Facebook very much wants to do the same to personal information (it's got no interest in dusty academe unless someone LIKES it) and keep out those - such as Google - who want to map its social graph.     Net navigator … Google's vice-president of search product and user experience Marissa Mayer. Photograph Graham Turner Photograph Graham Turner/Guardian    Meanwhile over at Google Marissa Mayer one of the longest-standing employees has been promoted (it says) from vice-president of search products to a new role focussed on location and local services.  Does Google think search is done then Or just moving Mayer sideways (or even downwards) Well it certainly seems to think that the recipe for serving up standard results can be left to the teams who tweak it a few times a day; but the real future action is in figuring out where the new things are. And with search locality is going to be increasingly important especially with GPS-enabled internet-connected devices (you may know them as smartphones) becoming more and more prevalent.  Louis Gray managing director of new media at Paladin Advisors Group comments   For savvy press release readers one does not see any negativity in Marissa's news and to bring up words of demotion or competitive pressures are ridiculous. At the same time she joined the company's operating committee which is essentially as high as you can go without being on the board of directors. Meanwhile Marissa has enough money to walk away if she ever wanted and just about any company under the sun would be delighted to have her. So think again when you see nonsense about this being a push down the stairs in Mountain View. This is a strategic move one that shows they aren't going to be sitting on their laurels at a time when others are making headlines.  So it's the Google local thing against that underdog Microsoft with scrappy Facebook holding its coat. Stay watching this one.