Users ignore "real time" results in searches. That's the conclusion of some eye-tracking studies carried out on people doing usability studies with Google results, and it might not be good news for Twitter - which has done deals with Google and Bing to let them index its content and serve it up in the results for searches. Google is reckoned to be paying $15m, and Bing $10m - though the length of the deal isn't known. The study is unequivocal: tweets are the gorillas in the passing game of search results. Come again?   "It was right in front of you. Why didn't you see it? That's what a group of researchers investigated over a decade ago when they asked their study subjects to watch a video of a group of people passing a ball around. For the study, the participants were asked to count the number of passes completed. The participants were surprisingly accurate in their counts. And what about the gorilla? (Well, not a real gorilla, but a woman wearing a gorilla suit). In one group, less than 10% of the participants reported seeing a gorilla pass through. It is precisely what the study participants didn't see – a woman in a gorilla suit – that interested the researchers."  The news will bring a quiet smile to Nick Carr, the author and blogger who has been compiling his sardonic Realtime Chronicles (like the Martian Chronicles, but more terrestrial) about the faint whiff of idiocy that attaches to attempts to orient the web, and particularly search, around the leavings of folk on Twitter.  But why don't we care about real-time results? Over at Scripting News, ur-blogger Dave Winer suggests that it's because   "It's impossible to convey much information in 140 characters. So when a search hits a tweet you get at most a soundbite, telling you something you probably already knew. When you search you're looking for information you don't have but want."  He adds:   "I have a collection of Google Alerts that report once a day or immediately, via email, telling me about occurrences of my name, products I've made, other topics I'm interested in. These used to be pretty useful until they started including tweets in the body of stuff they search. Now the alerts are mostly useless. So in this case, adding real-time stuff actually subtracts value. "  (Though I've also heard separately from other people that Google Alerts are becoming useless to them because of the prevalence of SEO efforts which push useless results into the alerts. Now the interesting point: I heard it on my Twitter stream, without searching it out.) To which Josh Young's comment, also linked by Winer, makes sense: "Yes, real-time results in search suck because the feed is what's important, not the individual tweet." The intriguing thing is that Google's senior vice-president of search products and user experience, Marissa Mayer, sounded absolutely certain when I interviewed her in the middle of last year (before the deal with Twitter was signed) that real-time search would be really useful, and was something that Google absolutely should include. Here's the relevant quote, in response to the question:   "We think the real-time search is incredibly important, and the real-time data that's coming online can be super-useful in terms of finding out whether – something like, is this conference today any good? Is it warmer in San Francisco than it is in Silicon Valley? You can actually look at tweets and see those types of patterns emerge, so there's a lot of useful information about real-time interactions that we think ultimately will really affect search."  But it's already looking as though stuffing Twitter results high into the search results isn't quite the way to do that "useful information". Possibly Google - and Bing - will need to have a rethink about how results are presented: should "real-time" results (stop sniggering, Carr) be roped off in their own space, as sponsored results and text ads already are? But in that case, where? How does that gel with Google's aim of having plain, simple pages that load fast and also lead you to the information that you really want? There's an associated question: are real-time search results any use? When you're trying to find out about breaking news that affects you, they'll definitely look damn useful - for instance, if you've heard about a natural or other disaster at a location where you know a relative is living or visiting, you'll want to search and find out what's happening. (Assuming the telephone system isn't working.) Possibly if you could see a flow of tweets from that region, it would go some way to helping.  For the other situations, though... harder to make out. Over to you: can you frame a use for real-time search results from services like Twitter (and perhaps even, who knows, Facebook), and can you solve Google's presentation problem?