There's one thing you can say for Jeremy Hunt the media's own secretary of state doesn't give up easily. He has a dream (when in opposition). He wants to start local TV stations serving cities and towns the length and breadth of the nation. France does it; Catalonia does it; the USA does it. So why can't we And once in government Mr Hunt sets a study group to flesh out that vision with hard financial facts and figures. Alas as exactly prophesied Nick Shott from Lazards and his team come back to say that frankly the dream is a bit of a nightmare on the profit and loss front. Advertising might cover 50 of the revenue but heaven knows where the rest could come from. Maybe Jeremy would be better thinking of providing a local news "service" rather than a channel something that could be called up by using a red button on one of the major players (if light feeling of corporate collars in prospect that channel wished to be listed high up on electronic screen guides rather than languish in relegation zone obscurity). Undaunted Hunt ploughs on and good luck to any coalition chieftain pushing for something extra rather than cutting back. But see how even as he inches towards a solution the future comes round from the side and takes a giant leap. Hunt rattles on about high-speed broadband for all. Shott looks only a few years down the road to a day when TV online will make localism a cheap and easy breeze. And in America this autumn Google TV gets its act together. Google TV You can buy the sets already living room primed. We're talking a giant computer screen you can watch and research on at the same time a movie resource on demand a combination of everything your PC can do together with everything your Freeview or Sky connection can offer. "You'll never be bored" goes the Google tag line. And if you are then there's always Apple TV just a technical hop skip and jump to one side. In a sense there's nothing totally revolutionary here. 71 of university students (on one recent YouGov sample) already watch two hours of TV online every day. 52 habitually watch television and mail or text their mates at the same time. But equally this is a total game changer for a BBC and ITV that have to make more and more content because content truly is king; for a Sky that is no longer the biggest pike in the pond; for local services that can easily find a cheap sliver of huge multi-faceted action; and for a government that will have to start talking about an ever-expanding non-regulated future faster than governments anywhere in the western world are accustomed to. Google TV change metaphors and call it the elephant in the living room.