Ask.com is throwing in the search towel. Having been bought for $1.85bn by media mogul Barry Diller's IAC in March 2005 the company on Tuesday told Bloomberg that it is cutting 130 engineering jobs and basically giving search up to its competitors. And yet IAC's search revenue in the third quarter was up 20 to $205.1m and its operating income rose 43 to $28.9m. So why close it down Because the search engine side isn't doing the growing - it's the Ask.com toolbar. No more search engine but plenty more questions and answers. So that's $1.85bn not exactly well spent in just five years. And so ends a struggle that has been going on since some time in the mid-90s to give the Ask Jeeves (as it was) search engine some sort of edge. Initially the idea was that you would ask Jeeves - the butler - questions in a natural language. Trouble was it wasn't much good at parsing natural language and there was the little business of a row early on over the ownership of the Jeeves name (which had to be licensed from PG Wodehouse's estate). Then there were multiple rebrandings tweaks extras Jeeves was killed off Jeeves was revived and now he's been put into carbomite with a stake through his heart.  Ask.com President Doug Leeds told Bloomberg that the search unit will consolidate its engineering operations at its HQ in Oakland California and focus on developing its online question-and-answer service. (How long do you give that Did you even know it existed) Twenty of the engineers currently working in New Jersey will be asked to relocate to Oakland the company said. Leeds said that Google has become too powerful a competitor to justify Ask.com's continued pursuit of those search users. "It's become this huge juggernaut of a company that we really thought we could compete against by innovating" he told Bloomberg. "We did a great job of holding our market share but it wasn't enough to grow the way IAC had hoped we would grow when it bought us." Yeees. Since you ask Ask's market share - as 6th of the search providers (Google Yahoo Bing AOL ummm Ask) - was 2.  But think of that rising revenue and profit. Jeeves might be going away but IAC and Ask aren't. Ask.com's search results will be supplied by... well they're not saying but it's looking very like Google. Update Ask Jeeves gets in touch to say that well read it yourself.   "Ask Jeeves is very much alive in the UK and remains a significant part of the overall Ask Network and IAC businesses.   "To clarify in the UK we are still called Ask Jeeves (Jeeves was brought back last April due to user demand after a three year hiatus) but in the US we are Ask.com. Q&amp;A is our heritage and our commitment continues to be to provide the best Q&amp;A experience on the Web.   "This laser sharp focus on Q&amp;A means we're no longer going to focus resources on the development of our own web search technology. As a result we will be closing our engineering offices in Edison (New Jersey) and Hangzhou (China).   "This doesn't mean however that we have given up on web search. On the contrary. web search was and will continue to be a crucial ingredient to our Q&amp;A offering but will be provided via third party feeds rather than through Ask's own technology."  So you'll be able to search on Ask it just won't be Ask's search. Got that Excellent.  "Why make the huge capital investment required to support algorithmic web search development when independent Web Search is not required by our strategy. We have access to multiple third party structured and unstructured data feeds that when integrated can provide a web search experience on par with what we are able to produce internally at much lower costs.   "This will enable us to focus resources on innovating products and features that more effectively provide answers to users questions be those answers from the web or from real people."  In other words as it says as the top Ask is throwing in the search towel. Google (most likely as it has a contract through to 2012) will power the normal search process and the toolbar will keep making money for IAC. But it's still the end of an independent search engine. Never mind - there are plenty more such as Blekko and WolframAlpha.