Google's first launch of a voice recognition technology in Africa is significant on a number of counts, as reported by the Telegraph this weekend.  In developing markets, like Africa, desktop web access is often limited but mobiles are becoming widespread, which means there's a very large territory to be claimed if tech companies can get the service just right.  Photo by futureatlas.com on Flickr. Some rights reserved One of the liguistic experts who helped establish the service, Etienne Barnard, described two typical reactions to the new smartphone tool which returns spoken Google search results in Zulu or Afrikaans text on screen. "You have a group of people who are horrified - they see speech as a human thing and don't want to talk to a machine," he said. "Then you have a group who are fascinated. They're proud of their language and when a phone responds to them in it, it means they're taking ownership." Google's objective is to drive as much growth of its services as it can muster, planting flags into the developing economies - and therefore developing advertising markets - of the world. But it faces enormous challenges in infrastructure (it is already helping upgrade international fibre-optic cabling) as well as a consumer base (well, 'people') who can't afford even the most basic web-enabled phone. Voice technology here could be extremely powerful. A fully voice-powered phone doesn't need a touchscreen - or even any screen. Could Google engineer a simple, intuitive and cheap voice-only device for developing markets? That's quite a challenge but, as publisher Richard Mulholland says in this piece: "Africa needs Google but in the same way, Google needs Africa because it's going to push it to work out all kinds of new solutions, which is what it actually does best." Meanwhile, Facebook's solution to developing markets has been Facebook Zero, a low resolution version of the site which Facebook negotiates with operators to offer as a free service. How will Google meet the challenge of breaking a cash-poor but high potential market?