Google has begun to exploit the fruits of its $676m acquisition of the airline fare tracker ITA Software earlier this year by launching a flight-price search system for flights between US destinations. The search interface at http//www.google.com/flights arrived in a low-key launch after the takeover was bitterly opposed by rivals including Microsoft and travel services. Google will collect an affiliate fee from travel websites when people click through from the search engine's service to book flights. Flights can be sorted by travel date time airline and price. The service is not yet available for flights outside the US and Google told the Guardian it could not offer any dates for its launch. However airline analyst Henry Harteveldt told the Boston Globe he was unimpressed with the early version search results were inconsistent and incomplete and the booking button doesn't transfer the user's travel dates and destinations onto an airline's website ''As with everything Google they focus too much on the technology and not as much on the interface design" Harteveldt cofounder of Atmosphere Research Group told the Globe. "This is not a product that is ready for prime time." The deal faced fierce opposition in which it was argued Google would be able to combine its dominance of internet search with 65 US share and substantially more in many countries outside the US with ITA Software's technology to gain an unfair advantage. ITA Software's system was used by many travel sites to find and book flights; they argued that it could favour Google or put obstacles in the way of their own systems. The US Justice Department approved the acquisition in April after a lengthy investigation but imposed conditions including an agreement requiring Google to license ITA Software's technology to other companies until 2016. Google has promised to make it easier and quicker to find the best prices being offered by airlines. However the version that debuted Tuesday didn't appear to have anything dramatically different from what other travel search engines have been providing. Kayak which was among the travel search engines trying to block the ITA acquisition says it's ready to answer the challenge. "We're confident in our ability to compete and we believe our flight search technology is superior" said Robert Birge Kayak's chief marketing officer.