Google or at least one of its sharper-tongued search fellows has accused Microsoft's Bing of "copying" its search results and therefore "cheating" by basing its product "on our hard work". A remarkable thing to say for the world's most popular search engine which is presently being investigated by the the European Commission's to see whether there is enough evidence to lauch an antitrust case but there it is. "I've spent my career in pursuit of a good search engine" Amit Singhal a Google fellow who oversees the search engine's ranking algorithm told Danny Sullivan at Search Engine World. "I've got no problem with a competitor developing an innovative algorithm. But copying is not innovation in my book." What's got him so angry Since October 2010 Google's engineers have apparently been noticing that bizarre mispellings have been returning the same order of results on both their and Bing's results. How could that be given that some of the mistypings have never been seen by human eyes before So Google laid a trap. Suspecting something might be afoot with suspiciously similar results the Mountain View company began planting faux results on 17 December for 100 mistyped search queries including hiybbprqag mbzrxpgjys and indoswiftjobinproduction (those examples are now tarnished by more recent references including this one) and waited to see them appear on Bing's own search offering.  And lo by 31 December appear they did to Google employees using Internet Explorer on their laptops from home using Suggested Sites and the Bing Toolbar. As Sullivan notes "It strongly suggests that Bing was copying Google's results by watching what some people do at Google via Internet Explorer." Which has certainly gotten Singhal worked up. He considered it case closed and told Sullivan "It's cheating to me because we work incredibly hard and have done so for years but they just get there based on our hard work. I don't know how else to call it but plain and simple cheating. Another analogy is that it's like running a marathon and carrying someone else on your back who jumps off just before the finish line." But hold on just a minute. True some of the Bing results matched the Google ones. But out of 100 honeytraps laid Bing only fell into between seven and nine (depending on the time when the experiment was repeated).  So is the Bing sting wafer thin Bing certainly thinks so. Stefan Weitz director of Microsoft's Bing told Search Engine Land   "As you might imagine we use multiple signals and approaches when we think about ranking but like the rest of the players in this industry we're not going to go deep and detailed in how we do it. Clearly the overarching goal is to do a better job determining the intent of the search so we can guess at the best and most relevant answer to a given query. "Opt-in programs like the [Bing] toolbar help us with clickstream data one of many input signals we and other search engines use to help rank sites. This 'Google experiment' seems like a hack to confuse and manipulate some of these signals."  We did ask for a more detailed response from Bing in the UK. It said it would have to contact the US. We'll add it here when we have it. Update ZDNet's Mary Jo Foley has received an enlightening statement from Microsoft PR "We do not copy Google's results". We await a fuller explanation. Update #2 Harry Shum corporate vice-president of Microsoft Bing has refuted Google's claim on the company's official blog. Shum describes Google's "spy-novelesque stunt" as a "back-handed compliment" to Bing and suggests that users' opt-in clickstream data and information from hundreds of other sources is the likely cause of similarity  "We use over 1000 different signals and features in our ranking algorithm. A small piece of that is clickstream data we get from some of our customers who opt-in to sharing anonymous data as they navigate the web in order to help us improve the experience for all users. "To be clear we learn from all of our customers. What we saw in today's story was a spy-novelesque stunt to generate extreme outliers in tail query ranking. It was a creative tactic by a competitor and we'll take it as a back-handed compliment. But it doesn't accurately portray how we use opt-in customer data as one of many inputs to help improve our user experience."  Might Microsoft be doing something underhand here To be sure Google's evidence would not pass muster in any self-respecting court of law. Sullivan thinks that if there is a certain amount of um flattery going on here then it's a net loss for users "I like that search engines have each had their own voices. One of the worst things about Yahoo changing over to Bing's results last year was that in the US (and in many countries around the world) we were suddenly down to only two search voices Google's and Bing's. "For 15 years I've covered search. In all that time we've never had so few search voices as we do now. At one point we had more than 10. That's one thing I love about the launch of Blekko. It gave us a fresh new search voice." Meanwhile Forbes reporter Jeff Bercovici suggests Google combat Bing's $100m advertising campaign with its own quip "Google Search So Good Even Bing Uses It."