A quick burst of 5 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team How many clouds is too many? AcerCloud announced in Las Vegas &gt;&gt; Gadget Writing Tim Anderson: "One of the features, which failed in the CES demo, is that a PC which is in hibernation can be woken up through wi-fi to deliver your content on demand: "As long as the main PC is in sleep (standby/hibernation) mode, Acer Always Connect technology can wake it up through Wi-Fi® so media can be retrieved via a mobile device. "This whole thing would work better if the cloud, rather than the home PC, were the central repository of data. A PC or notebook sitting at home is unreliable. It has a frail hard drive. It might be a laptop on battery power, and the battery might expire. The home broadband connection might fail - and most home connections are much slower uploading to the internet than downloading from it. "Another question: if you one of the professionals Acer refers to, will you want to put your faith in AcerCloud for showing documents at your business meeting?" The Next Big Thing: Android in the home, and in the fridge &gt;&gt; CNET Blogs "The smartphone will become the portal to other devices and appliances in the home, which will all work together seamlessly and allow access to whatever type of information you want anywhere in the house. It's already happening, with Wi-Fi being used now to control lights in houses. "Google's strategy is to move the focus from mobile devices to a more encompassing utilitarian function that shares information and intelligence much like peer-to-peer devices do. 'You want to be able to walk into your house and have all the appliances adjust, know it's you,' Schmidt said. 'A text message goes to the TV because that's your preference' and it all syncs together." So will we have to choose to live in Android or Apple or Microsoft houses too? Apple CEO Tim Cook didn't really make $378 million in 2011 &gt;&gt; Fortune Tech Cook's basic salary was an agreeable $900,000 last year. He was awarded $376m in restricted stock units which, according to Fortune, depend on Cook's continued employment at Apple over the next 10 years. Twitter orchestrates music partnerships with Gracenote and The Echo Nest &gt;&gt; guardian.co.uk "This partnership means Verified Twitter Accounts can be distributed into a wide range of products and brands - from smart TVs and automotive infotainment systems to cloud music services and smartphones," says Gracenote president Stephen White. Got that? Verified accounts only. Google's Results Get More Personal With "Search Plus Your World" &gt;&gt; Search Engine Land Google is going to have a painstaking time explaining this one. You can follow Guardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard