Google users will be able to look for information from their personal email accounts on its search engine in a new feature being trialled by the internet giant. The opt-in trial lets Gmail users see information from their emails such as flight details and booking confirmations when they search Google.com. A Google.com search for "biking in London" would highlight relevant Gmail messages that mention biking in the English capital. The trial feature is available from Thursday for English-language users with @gmail.com addresses. Google search boss Amit Singhal said the move was part of plans to build the search engine of the future. "Sometimes the best answer to your question isn't available on the public web it may be contained somewhere else such as in your email" he wrote on Google's official blog. "We think you shouldn't have to be your own mini-search engine to find the most useful information it should just work. A search is a search and we want our results to be truly universal. "So we're developing a way to find this information for you that's useful and unobtrusive and we'd love your feedback. Starting today we're opening up a limited trial where you can sign up to get information from your Gmail right from the search box." Google has faced close scrutiny from privacy campaigners about several of its products including Gmail and its now-defunct social network Google Buzz. The company will have to tread carefully with the introduction of this feature which users must explicitly opt in to receive. Singhal said "These are baby steps but important ones on our way to building the search engine of the future one that is much more intelligent and useful than it was just a few years ago. It's a very exciting time to be working in this field." Google announced the move as part of a wider upgrade of its search engine at a press conference in San Francisco on Wednesday evening. The company expanded its Knowledge Graph feature outside the US meaning users will be able to see personalised results gathered from the queries of 500 million internet users alongside regular search results. If an Australian user searched for "chiefs" then Google would show results for the New Zealand Chiefs rugby union team but elsewhere this result would not be as relevant. Google also upgraded its voice search function.