Europe's antitrust chief has given Google until 2 July to offer changes in its search results and advertising rules or face the threat of being taken to court and potentially huge fines. Joaquin Almunia the head of competition policy has set out in a private letter the European commission's concerns on how Google's dominance where in Europe it has about 90 of searches could be harming competition. Almunia's letter is only one of many battles the US company is fighting against the threat of government regulation. The US and South Korea are also investigating whether it is abusing its near-monopoly in search while in Europe accusations that it is invading people's privacy and even snooping on online conversations are coming under scrutiny from French and German regulators. In a statement Google told the Guardian "We operate in over 100 countries around the world and the internet is disruptive by its nature. It's understandable that our business should attract scrutiny and sometimes complaints in a few of those countries. We're always happy to answer questions authorities may have about our business." Unusually Almunia has indicated that he is ready to deal with Google rather than taking it to court evidence a Google spokesman suggested that "we've have been co-operating with their investigation and that issues can be solved through conversation". Yet the investigations are mounting up so rapidly that many doubt Google can escape some strictures. For the company which in 2001 adopted the motto "don't be evil" as a counterpoint to Microsoft which was then being sued for monopolistic practices in the US and Europe it is a strange reverse. "What's happened is that Google's popularity and virtually unprecedented success have made it a target" says Whit Andrews an analyst with the IT research company Gartner. "Google doesn't understand why when it provides a superior product which it believes it operates transparently why everybody then seems to want to stop it." He says that "instinctively Google believes it's providing the best search engine and that that should indemnify it from the slings and arrows of government interference". But it hasn't. Almunia in his letter on 26 May to Google's executive chairman Eric Schmidt says that among his concerns are the ways Google treats links to its own "vertical search" services specialist topics such as shopping news or travel preferentially to rivals. Such complaints from a small British shopping search site called Foundem helped trigger the abuse of monopoly investigation in November 2010. It is not illegal as such to have a monopoly in search; but it's certainly illegal to use that to handicap rivals in other fields. Schmidt last week said he had not seen the specifics of Almunia's complaint but was happy to talk to him. "He's encouraging us to have a conversation and we completely agree. We disagree that we are in violation in general" he said in London. If Almunia prevails as he is expected to one way or another then Google will have to change its search results and perhaps even give rivals in some fields star billing. That will be galling for the company as it tries to extend its hegemony across shopping travel and news. Yet it may be the only practical way out. But the European commission is only the start. In France the data protection commissioner the CNIL has written to Google demanding more detail about the changes in its privacy policies. "The answers provided by Google are often incomplete or approximate" tuts the CNIL which has given the company until 8 June to explain how the data it collects about users that's pretty much everyone in Europe is processed and how long it is stored. In Germany the district attorney in Hamburg is considering a prosecution under wiretapping laws. A key driver was a report published in April by the US federal communications commission (FCC) about Google's collection of data from wireless internet connections to homes and businesses while it was compiling its Street View picture maps in 2010 and 2011. The Hamburg data protection commissioner found Google's Street View cars werecollecting not only the names and locations of networks but also data being transmitted without password protection. Although each capture lasted less than a second that could be up to a megabyte of data equivalent to a number of emails. One incriminating one in France included a married man seeking an affair the CNIL found. What the FCC report revealed was that the data collection was not as Google repeatedly insisted a mistake. A Google engineer wrote the code to do it told colleagues about it suggested it be reviewed by lawyers (it wasn't) and when the collection was complete tried analysing it to see if there was anything Google could use for future services. In Germany where individual privacy is taken extremely seriously and has extra legal protections this has triggered a long-running investigation by the Hamburg district attorney which has not yet decided whether to prosecute Google. If they don't then the Hamburg data protection commissioner Dr Johannes Caspar will be waiting. The FCC report he says makes any infringement worse "We have to think about the probability of Google in this case doing something wrong which is to store data of conversations of people via the internet. It was just decided by one employee he talked about it and so the circle of people who knew about it was bigger. So we have to think about the responsibilities of the management of Google." In the US the federal trade commission is investigating both Google's tweaking of vertical search to favour its own products — though Schmidt told a Senate hearing last September the situation was more complicated and that what the senators saw as favouritism for Google products was a confusion between price comparison and sales sites. So are the FTC or Senate likely to pursue Google for tweaking search results to favour its own as the Department of Justice pursued Microsoft in 1998 for insisting that Windows licences must come with Internet Explorer "Microsoft made key errors consumers began to perceive it as taking advantage of them. PCs cost a lot Office cost a lot but the operating system was becoming less important so Microsoft became vulnerable to regulatory attack." If the mood towards Google changes in the US if it is felt to be taking advantage of users a similar change might follow but not in an election year he suggests. Certainly some in the US have become disenchanted with Google Jeffrey Katz chief executive of Nextag a price comparison site told the Guardian that when Google was a young startup he was happy to work with it. Now he says "they control peoples' view of the net and it isn't a level playing field." About 90 of users never go past the first page so anything off there is unlikely to be seen; while Google's products consistently feature among the top three so they are "above the fold" of the page not even requiring scrolling to see and click on them. "It's not accidental" Katz says. "It's undeniable. What's questionable is why more people aren't speaking up about it. Maybe they're worried about what Google will do." He says the claim repeatedly made by Schmidt and other Google executives such as chief executive Larry Page that the competition is just a click away is "such a disingenuous statement by billionaires". He said "Why would the average person do that Ask them what other search engines exist and they'll fall silent." Andrews thinks there is more chance that European regulators will act than American. "In an election year trying to put Larry Page's head on the battlements isn't going to pay off for a US regulator unless Google makes a mistake that leaves it with a villain's role." In Europe he thinks the mood is different "European citizens turn to regulators to be their conscience. It's much more likely there will be substantive action in Europe." With the clock ticking to Almunia's deadline in July Google must hope to avert that. Pending and playing out the charges against Google