A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over as picked by the Technology team Google Adds Personal Gmail Results Into Search &gt;&gt; AllThingsD Um. Good luck.   So when participating users search for "Amazon" information from their own recent purchase confirmation emails will appear on the right rail. Or a user could type "my flights" as a search query and see -- directly at the top of their search results -- itineraries drawn from their flight confirmation emails.  "Name your shills" judge orders Oracle Google  Ars Technica  With the epic legal battle between Google and Oracle winding down Judge William Alsup today made an unusual demand the parties need to tell the court who its paid advocates are. Alsup is worried that Google and Oracle may have "retained or paid print or internet authors journalists commentators or bloggers who have and/or may publish comments on the issues in this case." The information could "be of use on appeal or on any remand to make clear whether any treatise article commentary or analysis on the issues posed by this case are possibly influenced by financial relationships to the parties or counsel."  Due by Friday 17 August. Google 100 billion searches per month search to integrate Gmail launching enhanced search app for iOS &gt;&gt; SearchEngineLand  Google has announced that a new "field trial"of Gmail results within Google Search results is available a Google Now-like Google Voice Search app for the iPhone and the iPad is coming in a few days and the Knowledge Graph is going worldwide for English searchers. Oh and a stat we haven't heard from Google for a long time. How many searches it handles 100 billion per month.  Lenovo to release ThinkPad X1 Carbon business ultrabook in August &gt;&gt; FierceMobileIT  The new ultrabook is designed specifically to appeal to business users and includes a number of Lenovo's security apps and Intel's vPro technology. The new ultrabook is .71-inches thick and weighs in at 3 pounds. This is about twice as thick and twice as heavy as a third-generation iPad but thinner and lighter than most ultrabooks.  Prices starting at $1399 up to $1849. The measure of any tech product is how it handles... &gt;&gt; Benedict Evans ..going wrong. See the picture. RIM shares rise on hopes of Samsung licensing deal &gt;&gt; Reuters  Jefferies &amp; Co analyst Peter Misek said RIM's strategic review process begun earlier this year would likely result in the Canadian company concluding that it needs to license BlackBerry 10 the operating system it is now developing. "Given recent management comments in the press it now appears that RIM is realizing what Wall Street has been saying for some time they are a subscale manufacturer and desperately need a partner" Misek wrote in a research note on Tuesday. "We believe RIM is attempting to revive discussions with Samsung regarding a BB10 licensing deal."  Samsung never saw a mobile phone licence it didn't want to licence. You can follow Guardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the free Delicious service.