Needing to renew my passport I used a search engine, Google, in a bid to find the application forms. At the top of the results web page was a link to The Passport Application Service which I assumed to be the official site. I filled in the form and paid £24. This has turned out not to be a fee for renewing the passport, but a fee for The Passport Application Service to post me the form which I had filled in. I added two photographs and took the form and photos to the Post Office where I discovered the correct fee is £72. Obviously, this is my fault for not taking more care. However, when I rang the official Passport Line, they were very helpful and told me that they received many calls about this site, and that, in their opinion, it is tantamount to fraud. I really do want to prevent other people being taken in in this way and hope that you may care to feature this for the benefit of your readers. JW, Lytham St Annes  If you have ever wondered how Google is able to make so much money each year, this letter offers a part explanation. The website is happy to accept and make income from adverts from companies which take advantage of the unwary. For example, type "Ehic card" into Google and several companies will appear at the top of the listing – in the paid-for ads box. These official-looking sites prey on those who don't know better by charging a fee (typically £14.99) to process their application for a European health card. But the truth is that Ehic cards are issued free for UK citizens. The official government site is further down the Google page. What the other sites are doing is getting consumers to pay for a service that is free. It's perfectly legal. The Passport Application Service works in a similar way. At the top of the website it says: "Welcome to the UK Passport application assistance service which assists you with an online passport application service through the official Identity and Passport Service (IPS). Our service helps individuals who are entitled to complete a passport application online, to do so correctly." It doesn't claim to be the official passport site. Its fee of £24 is for checking your application has been filled out correctly. Nice work it you can get it, although they have to buy the expensive Google ads to enable this to operate. We asked the company for an explanation. Finance director Stephen Oliver told us his firm offers a genuine service aimed at people who need help in filling in the application form. He said large numbers of passport applications failed each year because of errors – errors that his team will spot, saving his customers time. He also says his company employs translators to help those who do not have good enough English to fill in the forms. To access this service you have to dial an expensive 0905 number. When we pointed out that JW felt she had been duped into paying his firm's fee, he said he was happy to return her money not because he felt he was doing anything wrong, but as a gesture of goodwill. Interestingly, Google used to offer ads from companies that offered premium rate phone lines that would simply connect you to the normal NHS Direct phone line, but these have disappeared following criticism of the internet giant. Note, if you are desperate to have your passport application checked (why?) the Post Office offers a similar service, including sending, for £8.75. If you are going to America, don't fall for one of the companies that will process your Electronic System for Travel Authorization (Esta) immigration forms – for an additional fee. Travel agents are also getting in on the act, too. One reader was recently charged £19.99 by an agent who applied for Esta clearance on his behalf. If you do it yourself you'll pay $14 – around £9. We welcome letters but cannot answer individually. Email us at consumer.champions@theguardian.com or write to Bachelor &amp; Brignall, Money, the Guardian, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU. Please include a daytime phone number