Microsoft's Bing search engine has just unveiled a new design and features in its continuing effort to try and tempt users away from rival Google. Bing now builds even more contextual information into internet searches. A new Glance feature combines two existing features Snapshot and Sidebar which stored information on the user and pulled data from their Facebook Twitter and other social networks to create contextual and personalised search results which are more relevant to the user. Microsoft said in a blogpost This combined region ranks the key information and actions we know about any an entity while bringing in friends and expert opinions about that same topic. Microsoft has also increased the speed at which consumers can get answers to their queries introducing a new Page Zero feature. Page Zero starts highlighting information about a query as it is being typed into the search box including images video and links to news. Matching Google's Instant Search A new fact box also forms part of the redesign which recognises keywords and presents information on particular topics such as celebrities providing instant facts on their activities as well as popular search terms related to the celebrity. For example if you type Katy Perry we understand what you're looking for before you've even searched and give you a quick glance of who she is and suggest other popular search tasks associated with the singer said Microsoft. Bing's latest move echoes developments on Google's Instant Search which also provides results the moment a keyword is typed into the search box complete with summary facts. However Bing also shows information from relevant sites in small preview boxes; online check-in for an airline for example allowing one-click access to to the site from the Bing search results.     Microsoft has unveiled a new Bing logo redesign Photograph Microsoft    A redesign also introduces a new angled Bing logo which replaces the rounded lowercase "b" that Microsoft has been using up until now with a new angled lowercase "b" that was created to be simple real and direct according to Microsoft. The 'Bing ecosystem' The redesign continues Microsoft's campaign of highlighting the role Bing plays in the rest of Microsoft's product ecosystem including Office Windows 8.1 and the Xbox One not just on the web where its market share accounts for 17.9 compared with Google's 67 share in US searches according to metrics firm comScore. Ian Maude of industry analysts Enders Analysis questioned whether Microsoft's continued investment and development of Bing was enough to win a larger market share of internet search. It won't make any difference. Frankly Bing doesn't offer anything really truly different from Google. It's a number two product and it feels like an unbalanced arms race." Microsoft's Bing is challenging in a market that is very difficult to make any headway into said Maude due to the nature of search. "Search is a binary product you tend to have one search engine that's integrated into your browser your phone your devices and you don't switch between a few.