What exactly has been the difficulty about recognising that people go from particular search terms to particular websites After all Google does this sort of tracking as a matter of course that's how its ranking algorithm works in part. If you click on a search result link reach the site and decide it's rubbish or otherwise not for you and hit the "back" button Google records this and downgrades that site in its search rankings (at least for you; for others it may rank it differently). Google likes to suggest that it can't be held responsible for what people put up on the web; it's just the disinterested person helping out when a lost driver asks for directions. But it's not that simple. If it's going to take credit for the good as it does in its recent TV advert showing how a skate park in Hackney Wick was built it seems by doing lots of web searches then it has to take responsibility over the bad too. The list of websites which contain child-abuse imagery is not hard to identify. (And let's not squirm around trying to call it "child pornography" as if that somehow brought it into some space just below the realm of adult "pornography" so that you could then argue about whether something is "child" or "adult" or "inbetween" or needing recategorising. These are images where children who can't consent are abused sexually.) The list of keyword combinations that are used to go to those websites is known. So it's puzzling really that it has taken all this time for Google which services about 95 of searches throughout Europe and probably more in the UK to take this action. Was it having trouble collecting the list Are there too few people using its service to try to find such sites Evidently not if it can collect 100000 search terms that it's confident enough to block. Google itself hasn't given any reason though it's notable that Eric Schmidt its executive chairman (though a better term would be diplomat-in-chief) told the Daily Mail that "We've listened". What they weren't listening before But where the call may come is freedom of speech Where is the freedom to type what you want to into a search engine Where is the freedom to use the internet for anything you want There is a part of the American libertarian fringe which insists that child abuse websites don't actively harm anyone; that they are "speech" in just the same way that encryption code is speech and that newspapers writing about spying is speech. I once had lunch with an American programmer who insisted exactly that child abuse sites are fine and nobody's "harmed" by them. I couldn't decide whether to kick him or empty his plate over his head though in the interests of politeness and free speech I did neither. It's a nice try libertarians but it won't wash. The key difference is that speech doesn't harm people directly. Whereas these are sites and images of people who have been harmed through what has been done to them. The "speech" couldn't exist without the harm being done to another person. And I've had enough tedious arguments with libertarians to know that the one thing they won't countenance is one person infringing another's "property rights" of which the one they hold in the highest regard is the person themself. (And usually after that their guns.) So if a child has been abused by an adult to create "speech" it's a bad thing even on the libertarian axis. Nor is it as though these searches have some intangible benefit which we're being denied. As David Cameron points out the murders of Tia Sharp and April Jones were carried out by men who began their path to accessing extreme material via simple searches in the main search engines. Nobody who wants to read Vladimir Nabokov's Lolita searches for it by adding "sexy pics" on the end. Some of the early denizens of the commercial web thought that it would be an open playground where absolutely everyone could post absolutely everything. That was a pipe dream the sort that comes from those who haven't encountered the darker avenues of the human psyche and perhaps couldn't imagine how the apparent anonymity of being online alone with a keyboard would transform some peoples' mentalities. The reality is that the laws do apply online as well as offline. Google keeps bumping up against it in September MPs criticised it for its "continued failure" to remove links to infringing material. But it's not as if there aren't people trying to get those links up there so far this year Google has taken down 200m piracy links to films TV shows and songs. There's plenty of illegal activity out there. Google is just finally starting to behave like a good citizen. For a 15-year-old company one might argue that it's about time.