Ryanair's customer service overhaul has hit turbulence after analysts warned that a botched relaunch of its website could be losing the Irish airline custom. Since the debut of its new-look website earlier this month Ryanair has all but vanished from country destination flight searches on Google. According to data from web search analytics firm Intelligent Positioning Ryanair is no longer in the top 100 results on millions of searches made each month for flights to European destinations where Ryanair was the first airline to appear such as Romania and Belgium. The Ryanair website now allows users to book using as few as five clicks a major departure from the old site where customers had to negotiate security checks and opt out of buying extras before booking a flight. But the airline appears to have omitted some basic precautions in the relaunch.     Photograph Intelligent Positioning/Pi Datametrics Photograph Intelligent Positioning/Pi Datametrics    Sam Silverwood-Cope director of Intelligent Positioning said "They've ignored the legacy of the old Ryanair.com. It's quite startling. They are doing it just before their busiest time of the year." A change in web addresses without proper redirects means many results found by Google now simply return error pages he added. "Unless redirects get put in pretty soon the position is going to get worse and worse." Ryanair said it was confident that it was a temporary blip and the brand would sustain bookings. A spokesman said "As part of our evolving digital plans we will have more helpful content for customers on the website and this will sustain first-page rankings on key search terms going forward. "Various Ryanair.com internal and external linked pages are migrating to the new site. Until the site settles down there will be a temporary drop in organic search positions on certain key search terms." He said the update had been well received by customers. "We are very pleased with the level of bookings since the new site went live. We anticipate that it will take a week or so for things to bed down properly." Ryanair's new chief marketing officer Kenny Jacobs will have some knowledge of the negative effects of even a small shift in Google rankings. At Moneysupermarket.com his previous employer shares dropped 15 last July when the firm fell a few places in the results for car insurance. While Ryanair was one of the first websites to only take online bookings it has had an ambivalent relationship with the web. In January it finally agreed to sign up to Google's developing flight search tool with chief executive Michael O'Leary admitting "If you need information your first port of call is Google." Having long derided users of social media O'Leary recently became an enthusiastic convert to Twitter as a way to chat with customers. The airline is engaged in another step of its court battle against European travel websites On the Beach and Billigfluege over their use of screenscraping technology to access information on flights from Ryanair. The websites are appealing against rulings in Ryanair's favour. Silverwood-Cope pointed out that comfort for Ryanair could come from the experience of the Guardian which briefly saw traffic dip and its search ranking drop after changing its website domain from guardian.co.uk to theguardian.com last year.