In an era where small businesses are always looking for new ways to hold their own online and outdo the competition, it’s surprising this news has fallen well under the radar: Google is now considering the security of websites as a factor in how it ranks them in its search index. Perhaps because the murky world of search is baffling, Google’s crusade to ensure data online is encrypted and properly concealed from prying eyes has gone relatively unreported. But it’s a really easy and cheap way for SMEs to outwit the competition in terms of search rankings. Google is dishing out rewards to websites that are prepared to offer users a more secure experience. How? I hear you ask. It’s quite simple. If your website is securely hosted and starts with the encrypted HTTPS – the ‘s’ stands for secure – instead of the usual HTTP, Google may prioritise it above other sites of equal quality that are unencrypted. That’s because it deems them more trustworthy than unsecured websites – and more likely to offer a better, safer browsing experience for users. Over the past few months, Google has been running tests to take into account whether sites use secure, encrypted connections as a signal in its search ranking algorithms. It explains: “We’ve seen positive results, so we’re starting to use HTTPS as a ranking signal.” And while for now, “it’s only a very lightweight signal […] carrying less weight than other signals such as high-quality content”, this could change: “Over time, we may decide to strengthen it, because we’d like to encourage all website owners to switch from HTTP to HTTPS to keep everyone safe on the web.” Google’s acceleration comes after Edward Snowden’s recent warning which urged professionals to protect the confidentiality of their clients by encrypting their communications. The best news is that the change is easy to implement and the cost is minimal. It may only add an extra £5 to your existing monthly bill. The transfer needs to be correctly uploaded by the web host and your website pages have to be properly configured by your web designer. For businesses, it’s a win-win. A more secure website reassures their client base that any information they provide online will not be intercepted and fall into the wrong hands - and they get a search boost to boot. How to go about it… Switching from unencrypted http to https involves obtaining a Transport Layer Security protocol (TLS) certificate from a certificate authority. This provides three key layers of protection:Encryption: While a user surfs the web, nobody can “listen” to conversations, track activities or steal any personal information.Data integrity: data cannot be modified or corrupted during transferAuthentication: proves that your users communicate with the intended website. Technology is great when it functions but it can get messy if you get it wrong so avoid these five common mistakes:1. Make sure your TLS certificate is always valid2. Check the registered certificate has the correct host name. If you get it wrong, you will have a certificate name mismatch error3. Allow indexing of your pages by search engines where possible4. Only embed HTTPS content on HTTPS pages5. Make sure the content on your HTTP site and your HTTPS is the same Make this a priority and stay on top of the rankings now, as the incentive won’t last for long. It’s only a matter of time before every commercial website on the planet adheres to this, especially when they start losing out to competitors already acting on Google’s recommendation. Brett Dixon, founder of digital marketing agency DP Online Marketing. Sign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.