A small box that appears at the top of some Google search results lies at the heart of the European commission's statement of objection issued on Wednesday to the search engine over possible anti-competitive practices. Historically when a visitor to Google performed a general web search they were given a fairly standard layout of results. Paid adverts appear at the top and down the side; and the rest of the results are standard links to web pages arranged in a manner which the company's algorithm deems most likely to put relevant results at the top. Increasingly however Google searches also return results for the company's other services such as Google Travel Google Maps and Google Shopping. Instead of simply being arranged by order of relevance these results are inserted at or near the top of the page consistently for searches which Google deems to be in the correct area.   Related Google faces antitrust action from EU competition watchdog    It's the last of those Google Shopping which forms the focus of the commission's objection. Searching for consumer goods on Google leads to a small box at the top of the page offering links to a number of online retailers where the item searched for can be purchased. A search for Playstation 4 for instance offers links to Zavvi.com TheHut.com Very eBay and Argos under the headline Shop for Playstation 4 on Google. Clicking on the headline takes a visitor to Google's shopping service. The commission's preliminary view is that that treatment is an abuse of its dominant position in web search. If it hardens that view against Google competition commissioner Margrethe Vestager suggested that action against similar services such as Google Travel could follow. At the same time the commission announced an investigation into Google's practices around Android its mobile operating system. The investigation is less developed than that against Google Shopping but currently focuses on three main areas where the commissioners see potentially anticompetitive practice. First that Google allegedly requires or incentivises smartphone manufacturers to exclusively preinstall Google's services leveraging its dominance in mobile operating systems to extend its web services business; second that Google allegedly bundles diverse products together ensuring that manufacturers who want to preinstall popular Google services are forced to also preinstall less-popular ones alongside; and third that manufacturers who want to produce Android devices with any Google services at all are allegedly banned from using and developing other versions of Android known as forks of the operating system.