The death of teenager Bronte Doyne from cancer after she was told to stop googling her symptoms exposes how many professionals want to ignore the advances of the information age and cling to the old power relationship between doctors and patients. Bronte begged doctors to listen to her after online research on an authoritative US website convinced her that her rare liver cancer had returned. She died 16 months after being told she would survive. Just days before her death she wrote Can't begin to tell you how it feels to have to tell an oncologist they are wrong. I had to I'm fed up of trusting them. Her mother described doctors at Nottingham University hospitals NHS trust as aloof and evasive. Of course there are times when Google can be something of a curse to doctors. GP Clare Gerada while speaking eloquently on the Today programme about the need to listen to patients also pointed out that Google had helped convince one of hers who was suffering from a cold that the real problem was dengue fever.  But the ubiquitous availability of medical information is irrevocably putting more power in the hands of patients. As another reforming GP Sir John Oldham has put it the wide availability of medical information means that doctors have morphed from being possessors of knowledge to interpreters of it. While some are embracing this as a liberation from the old doctor knows best attitude and an opportunity to develop new ways of working with patients in a partnership others resent the undermining of their traditional position as the unassailable authority on all medical matters. This near-universal access to medical information comes at a time when health services in the UK and around the world see greater patient involvement as critical to making healthcare sustainable with greater self-management of long-term conditions and improved understanding of prevention and risk.  But in the UK greater access to information is happening randomly and patchily while the ability of patients to use that information effectively in their discussions with doctors and other clinicians is entirely at the whim of the professional who is seeing them. Three things need to fall into place to change this access to reliable information support in using it effectively and a compact between health professionals and the public about how that information will be used in the consultation room. An added complexity for a patient searching for answers is the involvement of social media in diagnoses. For example CrowdMed offers diagnosis through crowdsourcing among medical detectives. The site says that the influence of each detective is determined by their skill in making correct diagnoses. As to whether these people are all top doctors CrowdMed says We've seen that many of our site's top-performers don't necessary have the highest formal medical credentials. What is a worried patient supposed to make of all that  These sorts of developments cannot simply be ignored. They are attracting huge interest in the US and beyond and at the very least are beginning to change the way clinicians interact with patients and each other. When seen in this context is NHS Choices fit for the social media age   Related Humanity lies at the heart of an NHS worth keeping    But once you have reliable information Bronte Doyne's case demonstrates it is useless if your doctor won't listen. There needs to be a shared understanding across the NHS of the patient's right to be listened to and what this means for every patient interaction. This is not a route to longer consultations and wasted time but a strategy for improving outcomes and helping patients be engaged in their own care and be as independent as possible from clinicians and hospitals. Patient engagement has rightly been described as the blockbuster drug of the 21st century and information technology is key to making that a reality.  Deference as opposed to respect has no place in the modern doctor-patient relationship. Information voice and choice are the way forward.