Hand sanitiser topped three separate search categories in Australia during a year dominated by the coronavirus pandemic Google has revealed and US election was the leading overall search term. Where can I buy toilet paper was the most searched for can I phrase followed by Where can I buy hand sanitiser People keen to make their own hand sanitiser when there was a shortage earlier in the year resulted in it topping three separate lists how to … make it; recipe for it and DIY hand sanitiser. DIY ventilator was fourth on the DIY category with face mask pattern and neck hammock second and third respectively. Google reported that coronavirus was the second most-searched term overall and among news topics by Australians in 2020 behind US election in both categories. Other leading overall search terms related to the pandemic included Zoom at No 4 coronavirus symptoms (No 5) and coronavirus Victoria (No 9).   Related Joe Wicks and KFC recipes among UK's top Google 2020 searches    Highly ranked terms not directly related to the US election or the virus included weather tomorrow air quality Melbourne crumpet how to make whipped coffee and Ben Cousins. Coronavirus Victoria was also the fourth most searched news topic as the state endured 15 weeks of lockdown to overcome a second wave of cases. Toilet paper came in fifth as it became the panic-buy item of choice when lockdowns first kicked in in March forcing supermarkets to impose temporary buying limits. Can I leave Australia ranked No 10 in the can I searches. The Australian government introduced a travel ban for citizens and permanent residents at the beginning of the pandemic and closed the borders to most international arrivals. People searching the definition of words Googled Covid (No 1) and pandemic (No 2) along with barre (No 8) after the prime minister struggled earlier in the year to explain the rules concerning exercise during lockdown. Lockdown was the ninth most searched for word in the definitions list while stimulus package ranked No 4. As everyone was cooking more during lockdown sourdough recipes and how to make bread were also leading search results. As many businesses were closed during lockdown searches for Centrelink or how to apply for jobkeeper also ranked highly. Before the pandemic Australia was being ravaged by fires and the Fires Near Me app in New South Wales became indispensable so it was no surprise fires near me was No 3 in news topics and eighth in overall searches. A week after a senior constable was charged over leaking custody photos of former AFL player and coach Dani Laidley in May Google on Wednesday said Laidley was the most searched for Australian public figure in 2020 followed by comedian Celeste Barber who raised millions for bushfire relief and then NSW premier Gladys Berejiklian. George Pell and Quaden Bayles the nine-year-old boy who won an apology from Miranda Devine rounded out the top five. The top global figure searched for by Australians was US president-elect Joe Biden with Donald Trump No 8 behind others including Kim Jong-un Boris Johnson Kamala Harris and Joe Exotic from Netflix's Tiger King documentary. NBA was the most searched for sport in Australia ranking No 3 in overall searches behind US election and coronavirus. Basketball star Kobe Bryant who was killed in a helicopter crash ranked No 1 in Google's loss category of searches ahead of Naya Rivera and Chadwick Boseman.