Google's response to ChatGPT has got off to an embarrassing start after its new artificial intelligence-powered chatbot gave a wrong answer in a promotional video as investors wiped more than $100bn (£82bn) off the value of the search engine's parent company Alphabet. The sell-off on Wednesday came amid investor fears that Microsoft which is deploying an ChatGPT-powered version of its Bing search engine will damage Google's business. Alphabet stock slid by 9 during regular trading in the US but was flat after hours. Experts pointed out that promotional material for Bard Google's competitor to Microsoft-backed ChatGPT contained an error in the response by the chatbot to What new discoveries from the James Webb space telescope (JWST) can I tell my nine-year old about   Related ChatGPT needs a huge amount of editing’ users’ views mixed on AI chatbot    Bard's response in a video demo posted online includes an answer suggesting the JWST was used to take the very first pictures of a planet outside the Earth's solar system or exoplanets. The error was picked up by experts including Grant Tremblay an astrophysicist at the US Center for Astrophysics who tweeted Not to be a ~well actually~ jerk and I'm sure Bard will be impressive but for the record JWST did not take the very first image of a planet outside our solar system’.    Not to be a ~well actually~ jerk and I&#39;m sure Bard will be impressive but for the record JWST did not take &quot;the very first image of a planet outside our solar system&quot;. the first image was instead done by Chauvin et al. (2004) with the VLT/NACO using adaptive optics. https//t.co/bSBb5TOeUW pic.twitter.com/KnrZ1SSz7h&mdash; Grant Tremblay (@astrogrant) February 7 2023    Bruce Macintosh the director of University of California Observatories tweeted Speaking as someone who imaged an exoplanet 14 years before JWST was launched it feels like you should find a better example    Speaking as someone who imaged an exoplanet 14 years before JWST was launched it feels like you should find a better example&mdash; Bruce Macintosh (@bmac_astro) February 8 2023    Google said the error first reported by Reuters underlined the need for testing new systems. Bard has been released to a team of specialist testers and has yet to be rolled out to the public. This highlights the importance of a rigorous testing process something that we're kicking off this week with our trusted tester program a Google spokesperson said. We'll combine external feedback with our own internal testing to make sure Bard's responses meet a high bar for quality safety and groundedness in real-world information.   Related How will Google and Microsoft AI chatbots affect us and how we work    Bard is based on a so-called large language AI model a type of neural network which mimics the underlying architecture of the brain in computer form. It is fed vast amounts of text from the internet in a process that teaches it how to generate responses to text-based prompts. However this can also lead to the chatbot repeating errors from the information that it absorbs.    Bard is an experimental conversational AI service powered by LaMDA. Built using our large language models and drawing on information from the web it's a launchpad for curiosity and can help simplify complex topics → https//t.co/fSp531xKy3 pic.twitter.com/JecHXVmt8l&mdash; Google (@Google) February 6 2023   Google also gave a live-streamed presentation in Paris on Wednesday that did not include details of how and when it would integrate Bard into its core search function. A day earlier Microsoft held an event in which it announced that it was launching a public version of its Bing search with ChatGPT functions integrated. Gil Luria a senior software analyst at DA Davidson said While Google has been a leader in AI innovation over the last several years they seemed to have fallen asleep on implementing this technology into their search product. Google has been scrambling over the last few weeks to catch up on search and that caused the announcement to be rushed and the embarrassing mess-up of posting a wrong answer during their demo. Alphabet whose main business is Google is coming off a disappointing fourth quarter as advertisers cut spending. Microsoft is a key backer of the company behind ChatGPT the San Francisco-based OpenAI and its move to integrate ChatGPT technology into its products including search has forced Google also a big investor in AI to take action. People are starting to question is Microsoft going to be a formidable competitor now against Google's really bread-and-butter business said King Lip the chief strategist at BakerAvenue Wealth Management which owns Alphabet and Microsoft shares. Lip cautioned that concerns about Alphabet may be overblown saying I think still Bing is a far far cry away from Google's search capabilities.