A shark swims slowly serenely beneath Bismarck seconds sinks deep ocean Seemingly battleship tilts falls bow crashes seabed Its hull floods briefly resurfacing water Then voiceover says Oh ! Uh oh uh oh uh oh ! Boom ! The Bismarck snaps half sinks This Bismarck real end shipwreck simulated Alex Reifsnyder 27-year-old retail supervisor Pennsylvania Reifsnyder uses physics simulator Floating Sandbox sink ships tidal waves icebergs lightning hours night On TikTok page an_angry_flyy 167,000 loyal followers Not know exactly draws A comment video October reads Don know I watching I come day. Though given soundtrack slow sinister music upbeat pop Reifsnyder videos capture terror eerie expanse ocean power crush drag The German battleship Bismarck sank loss nearly 2,100 men 1941 discovered years later Photograph PA The comment section reveals viewers help picture onboard Imagine boat goes completely airborne reads joke I fine I seatbelt I survive. There clear appetite destruction Can added explosion asks commenter Another requests Could drop sky water There 3m lost vessels waves new technology finally enabling explore Guardian Seascape dedicating series secret histories hidden treasures lessons teach From glimpses storied wrecks Titanic Ernest Shackleton doomed Endurance slave vessels Clotilda Spanish galleons lined plundered South American gold confront troubled history shipwrecks time capsules holding clues But ocean actors right home huge colonies marine life They victims threats faced ocean invasive species eating away hulls acidification slowly causing disintegrate Shipwrecks mirrors showing just ve future holds fast-heating globe The pull wrecks boon science shedding light planet shrouded mystery If shipwrecks sirens lure depths encourage exploration truly frontier planet says James Delgado shipwreck company Search Inc. A frontier don really know about. Chris Michael Laura Paddison Seascape editors More 1.7 million people watched Bismarck boom early October Reifsnyder popular video 21m views In unfathomably tall wave approaches Bismarck Hans Zimmer Cornfield Chase film Interstellar plays The ship lifted air stern slams ocean snaps half Water pours ship In pieces sinks seabed I ve interest Titanic Britannic Lusitania I ve watched lot history videos ships says Reifsnyder began wrecking ships July years failing fans streaming shooting game Call Duty Finding fans problem time A lot people really satisfying says It actually pretty therapeutic watch boats sink In streams I create relaxing inclusive environment everybody anybody. Our minds simulated shipwreck opportunity learn important information low cost This makes difficult look away Dr Coltan Scrivner Initially Reifsnyder viewers men aged recently hopped onboard I noticed females coming watching says I people speak languages I recognise. Reifsnyder bilingual occasionally speaks Spanish streams A lot people tell I great narration voice says His commentary varies deadpan descriptive excitably absurd It going yeeted air ! Oh spikes goes. Dr Coltan Scrivner expert morbid curiosity argues keeps people coming form learning Humans like animals built-in cognitive bias encourages pay attention situations inform threats danger says research scientist Recreational Fear Lab Aarhus University Denmark Related Almost war shipwreck hunters battle sunken treasure Scrivner says threat information especially appealing cost look low watch news play game simulation Our minds simulated shipwreck opportunity learn important consequential information low cost This makes difficult look away. Reifsnyder views content educational mocking tragedies Unlike games onboard ships Floating Sandbox population counter ticks vessel sinks This history learning physics Reifsnyder says Hydrodynamic physics accounted game thermodynamics accounted gravity accounted for. Or way Uh oh uh oh uh oh ! Boom !