Anyone for Tetris? 
As another Wimbledon fortnight draws to a close, it is natural to reflect. And not just in the lenses of the Maui Jim sunglasses concession that will soon disappear from the driveway of 420 Wimbledon Park Road. It’s time to take stock of the tennis that has been played, the crowds that have been entertained and, of course, the commercial partnerships that have been struck during this sporting fortnight. 
 
  Related: Federer and Nadal renew old rivalry and serve up a contest for the ages | Jacob Steinberg  
 
With regards to the last, the All England Club made an announcement late on Thursday evening that will surely have caused the tennis world to sit up and take notice. Before scratching its head, asking what the hell this modern mumbo jumbo was all about and then going back to sleep again. The announcement was an exclusive relationship with the app TikTok, a Chinese-owned program that is currently crazily fashionable with teenagers around the world. 
TikTok essentially facilitates karaoke, allowing users to produce videos that are synced to music. Wimbledon has been serving up video clips for users to remix and, according to the All England Club, “Best-performing content to date includes a mash-up of Nick Kyrgios to Dreadlock Holiday, and Mariah Carey’s ‘Through the Rain’ to the clip of the exploding sprinkler.” 
You know, the clip of the exploding sprinkler. Anyway it’s all well and good to chuckle at this stuff, but the fact is that every sport and competition in the world is trying to keep pace with the modern world and this appears a smart way of doing it. What’s more, combined with an increased focus on sustainability, a notably young and more diverse crowd, this year’s Wimbledon has actually felt quite … modern. 
Battle of the sexists 
Number of the day: 32. When it comes to the final count there will have been 27 men’s singles matches on Centre and No 1 Court this year, compared with 32 women’s. Is that … progress? 
Lest we get too carried away (and so sequestered from reality is SW19 that it’s sometimes hard not to), YouGov pop up with a polling question to bring us back down to earth. According to their sample of 1,732 adults, 12% of British men think they could win a point off Serena Williams if they were playing “their very best tennis”. No you wouldn’t lads, now get back to shouting at the television 
  
  
   
  
  
 
Stars align 
Sir David Attenborough, Sir Alex Ferguson, Sir David Beckham (within boot throwing distance), Hugh Grant, Bear Grylls, Jude Law, Nick Faldo and yes, Michael McIntyre. Has there ever been a stronger royal box? The Wimbledon press people insist this is par for the course on a semi-final day and yes, Attenborough and McIntyre were in on the same day last year. But the total combined star wattage of this year’s lineup is higher. It therefore finds itself in competition with the Bradley Cooper-Gerard Butler cornflour blue final of 2013, or indeed 2010 and the last time HMQ was in SW19 (then her first visit in 33 years). Let the GOAT box debate begin. 
  
 
  Sign up to The Recap, our weekly email of editors’ picks.
  
