Lizzo has accused the social media app TikTok of body shaming after it deleted multiple videos of her in a bathing suit. TikTok keeps taking down my videos with me in my bathing suits she wrote in the clip she posted on TikTok. But allows other videos with girls in bathing suits. I wonder why TikTok ... we need to talk. The clip has received over 8m views on TikTok.       A TikTok spokesperson told the Guardian that Lizzo's videos were not removed because she was wearing a bathing suit. They cited other violations including sexual gratification that lead to a moderator initially banning the videos. The spokesperson specifically cited one video that featured Lizzo lifting up her dress to reveal her undergarments. There was initial confusion over what the garments were. After officials at TikTok spoke to Lizzo's team and the undergarments were confirmed to be Spanx not underwear the videos were reinstated exactly as they were originally uploaded. We love Lizzo's creativity the spokesperson said. And the videos were originally removed because of other violations not a bathing suit. The Juice singer has worked hard to combat negative comments and attitudes towards her physical appearance. Last year Lizzo received a flurry of attacks for wearing an ass-less dress and thong to an NBA game. Never ever let somebody stop you or shame you from being yourself she said in response to the attacks. This is who I've always been. Now everyone's looking at it and your criticism can just remain your criticism. Your criticism has no effect on me.   Related Lizzo lack of body positivity in media took toll on mental health    Lizzo also shrugged off the controversial comments fitness expert Jillian Michaels made on the body-positivity movement surrounding the singer. (Why are we celebrating her body Why does it matter Why aren't we celebrating her music ’Cause it isn't gonna be awesome if she gets diabetes. Michaels said during a morning news segment.) TikTok is not the first social media platform Lizzo has taken issue with. Last year she quit Twitter due to severe bullying and online trolls. TikTok has come under fire before for its censorship of users’ content. In November Washington DC officials held hearings over the app censoring political content. And last year officials at TikTok admitted to censoring offensive content in an effort to curb bullying towards users who are fat disabled LGBTQ+ and/or people of color. Social media platforms have long faced accusations of unfairly censoring women's bodies with many women's rights groups calling the decisions sexist. Instagram has come under fire for heavily deleting photos that feature women's nipples. The Free the Nipple movement rages on the app multiple artists and celebrities including Rihanna Kim Kardashian and Chrissy Teigen have challenged the censorship rule with their own buzzed-about scandalous photos. In 2015 Milk and Honey poet Rupi Kaur gained notoriety for challenging Instagram's ban on period blood by posting her own.