It's a sentence that seemed impossible just a few days ago and would have made zero sense any time before this year. But in a series of events as unlikely as a Parisian rat becoming an acclaimed chef the highly unofficial Ratatouille musical is coming to Broadway. The musical also known as the Ratatousical is a crowd-created musical phenomenon not affiliated with Disney and mostly spread jokingly through viral videos on social media site TikTok.   Related Ratatouille the musical Is that even possible    But on Wednesday it was announced that a full musical of selected songs will officially come to Broadway for a one-off charity performance streamed online on 1 January. Organised by production company Seaview it will supposedly star Broadway performers and ticket sales to the digital event will raise money for the Actors Fund. Unlike a traditional musical the Ratatouille musical has no single creator or any canonical music or lyrics. After an initial post from teacher Emily Jacobsen social media users began writing their own original songs for a hypothetical Ratatouille musical based on the critically acclaimed 2007 Pixar animated film. Hundreds of fans of both musical theatre and rodent gastronomy organically built off each others’ songs and ideas planned running orders and even designed playbills and set ideas. The cast of the Broadway version has not yet been announced and industry publication Playbill has said it is unclear what numbers [out of the hundreds online] will make into the concert. It is also unclear whether it will be staged inside a physical Broadway theatre though Playbill described it as a a filmed concert presentation. The official website claims that Broadway's biggest and brightest talents will be involved.    The rat&#39;s out of the hat Ratatouille The @tiktok_us Musical will get a concert presentation in January 2021 to benefit @TheActorsFund https//t.co/g7g3RKFaUk pic.twitter.com/6WLkaqeCkT&mdash; Playbill (@playbill) December 9 2020    Ratatouille the original 2007 Pixar animated film tells the story of Remy a talented French rat with an aptitude for the gustatory who learns to cook from old TV shows and cookbooks made by a famous human chef Auguste Gusteau whose motto is that anyone can cook. While other Disney films have been granted official musical remakes such as Beauty and the Beast Frozen and The Lion King Ratatouille so far has been snubbed. And despite the official status of this musical it is sadly not that official with Disney clarifying in a recent statement that the company does not have development plans for the title. The film giant has given this charity performance its blessing saying we love when our fans engage with Disney stories and we thank all of the online theater makers for helping to benefit the Actors Fund in this unprecedented time of need. It has also been confirmed that the creators of songs to be used in the musical will be credited and compensated. The original voice of Remy actor and comedian Patton Oswalt had also given the musical his blessing and promised he would be there virtually at least. Actors Lou Romano the voice of character Alfredo Linguini Janeane Garofalo the voice of Colette Tatou have so far not publicly spoken about the Ratatouille musical. Ian Holm the voice of antagonist Chef Skinner died earlier this year. Peter O'Toole who voiced the food critic Anton Ego died in 2013.     OH MY GOD IT'S HAPPENING. What an amazing way to start out 2021 And the proceeds benefit @TheActorsFund You gonna be there I will #ratatouillethemusical https//t.co/a0h7dMq16A&mdash; Patton Oswalt (@pattonoswalt) December 9 2020