There are upsides to single parenting during a pandemic chiefly the avoidance of another adult's dark moods. Even at its craziest since New York locked down in March when my kids are still running around at 11pm because I am too tired or up against it to put them down; when the dishwasher never once manages to unstack itself; on the arrival of mice in my apartment because apparently I can't and won't pick up crumbs it has often struck me that short of illness the only way this scenario could be worse was if I had to manage one more person's needs. And then there is the downside the effects of leaning on TikTok as co-parent. For the first two weeks of lockdown we did what we were supposed to. I blew through a large deadline and engaged conscientiously with my kids’ remote schooling every morning. We did the worksheets. We made a word wall. I bought a whiteboard. In between learning activities I scheduled centre time which included building things colouring and yes piano. It was fun and novel and everyone did what they were told. The honeymoon didn't last. I assume that left to run its course this timetable would have fallen apart anyway. As it was we never got to find out. After two weeks I received a chasing email about the deadline made the decision that it was the girls’ work or mine and in the face of every parental instinct absented them from school and broke out the iPads. On a shorter deadline I could've slammed through on adrenalin and worked while the girls slept. But that model isn't sustainable for long. And so at 9am I parked them on screens and hoped it would hold until lunchtime. Obviously now I regret downloading TikTok which carries an age advisory of 13. My kids are five and a half. But you learn very quickly while working full time with no help that content made specifically for five-year-olds won't sustain their attention for long. A lot of the kindergarten learning apps require parental involvement and even those that don't come with a guarantee that 15 minutes after loading one or both of your kids will be shouting I'm bored. Conventional TV and movies might buy you another 45 minutes at most while interactive games which require constant parental intervention to type in search terms or reboot after crashes will maybe bank you an hour. In the midst of all this the single most reliable way to buy yourself half a day of almost-interruption-free work is the addictive 60-second video feed of TikTok. Most of the content is harmless and dumb no worse than YouTube. It is teens doing weird tricks with Oreos or skateboard stunts or dances or bad skits driven by a depressing desire to be famous for sure but no more so than the arch kid-shows on Disney. And while some swearing gets through as it does in real life in my house this wasn't an overwhelming problem either. My kids know bad words are wrong albeit not the end of the world and by and large continue to respect the taboo. The bigger issue as the weeks went by was the communication of a certain vocabulary and attitude. For a while stripped of their schoolmates and teachers my kids’ accents became more decisively English. At some point however attendance at the school of TikTok flipped them back to American and not just any American but this mom. Mom MOM Oh my gosh what I don't want this it's superlame. It doesn't matter what this is dinner clothing any activity that isn't screen-based. All have become subject to the dual proto-teen joys of rejection coupled with impersonation of the big girls. Vaguely sexualised language has started to creep in so that every dance my girls do is now accompanied by the phrase shake your booty And with the intuitive older-kid understanding of how nihilism works on parental nerves everything that isn't superlame triggers the response I don't care. Very occasionally there are moments of reprieve. For a second when it appeared as if social justice warriors on TikTok had pranked Donald Trump by reserving tickets at his rally in Tulsa I told myself it wasn't an entirely appalling platform and used it to talk to my daughters about politics the president and protest. And I confess to enjoying a moment of I know very wrongheaded national pride when I heard one child lustily tell the other to shit off the result of a British video upload advertising our still world-class standards in swearing. For the most part however it has been downhill all the way. Now that I am for a second out of the woods with work we have entered a period of detox. Maybe it's not so bad I tell myself. Maybe this is just my kids’ generation's version of every moral panic about children and media since the invention of radio waves. Then one morning I hear my daughter casually tell her sister You have a fat ass. And that's it. Until the next time there's no alternative we're out.