As TikTok claims it would never hand over user information on Australian users to foreign governments the company's own transparency reporting reveals hundreds of instances where user data has been handed over to governments. The short video app popular with a younger demographic and used by some 1 billion people worldwide has been the subject of intense scrutiny over concerns its Beijing-based company ByteDance could be handing over data about its users to the Chinese government. India has banned the app while the US has hinted at a similar ban. TikTok went on the offensive this week in Australia writing letters to every federal politician and placing full-page newspaper ads claiming the app was being used as a political football in the ongoing disputes with China.   Related TikTok could break away from Chinese parent to avoid ban says Trump adviser    TikTok's general manager in Australia Lee Hunter told Guardian Australia the company was trying to encourage a dialogue with Australian lawmakers. We're about educating those policymakers exactly what TikTok is doing and being as open as we can. We're an open book about this. On Friday Scott Morrison told the Melbourne radio station 3AW he was mindful of the risks potentially posed by the app and said they were being monitored closely. If we consider there is a need to take further action than we are taking now then I can tell you we won't be shy about it the prime minister said. Hunter said user data which for Australia is held in Singapore and the US would not be handed over The Chinese government and any foreign government has never asked for our data [and] even if they did ask for that we would refuse to give it to them. It's a very very clear global mandate that we have which we're not just saying in Australia but we're saying around the world … user data and information is stored confidentially it's not shared with any other companies or government agencies and it's not our intention to ever do so. But the company's own transparency report reveals TikTok complying with hundreds of requests a year from foreign governments for user information videos user interactions and log data. India had a 90 success rate for its more than 400 requests to TikTok in the last six months of 2019. The US had an 82 success rate from more than 100 requests while Australia made two requests both of which were rejected. There were no requests listed from China and although there is nothing in the guidelines preventing foreign governments requesting user data it would be subject to the mutual legal assistance request framework of the country requesting the data. When asked about this Hunter referred to the separate content removal requests and said TikTok worked with the applicable laws of the countries it operated in. With Australia I want to be clear that we don't provide access to user data with any government authorities he said. We do look to work with the applicable laws of the country to make sure that we're protecting our users but we do that on a case by case basis again everything in aid of what is the best for the users on the platform. Ownership options The gay dating app Grindr has shifted its ownership back from China to the US after US politicians raising concerns about national security implications. Hunter indicated one potential option could be to structure TikTok so it was not owned by a company located in China an option also flagged by the White House adviser Larry Kudlow. We're looking at a number of different ways in which we might serve the users and our creators and partners better be it through corporate structures or any other means we're looking at a number of things around that he said.   Related There are calls to ban TikTok in Australia but you should worry about Facebook too    TikTok also plans to provide evidence to a federal parliamentary inquiry looking into foreign influence through social media and Hunter said TikTok was keen to stress it is a platform built to host its users’ videos and that alone. My goal is that the more successful we can make our creators the more successful we'll be the more enjoyment and information and a safe experience we can give to our users the better will be he said. Everything is in service of them and we're a platform that's designed to help them enjoy it to be a fun creative safe and entertaining place … There's clearly bigger issues of play with China and other governments but we want to focus on what we do best which is helping our users really broadcast their stories to others and making a great great place for entertainment and information.