Someone somewhere makes a sandwich gracefully pressing her fork into the edges of crustless white bread. Someone else jumps in the air and somehow manages to remove his hoodie with his foot landing on his feet and looking shocked. A golden retriever appears to be dancing on their hind legs. A son opens a box that his deceased father left him for his 18th birthday. Families assemble in formation and do dances made famous by other people on the internet. Ant and Dec throw progressively larger things at each others’ heads underneath the caption Day 37 of lockdown.       On TikTok the performed human experience comes to us in short bursts. The platform is made for quick-cut videos usually 15- to 60-seconds long often accompanied by short clips of frenetic music and visual effects. The format is simple users post videos of themselves dancing and singing and trying to be funny and exercising and just talking to the world. It's charming and cringeworthy and has a directness that is unlike the flattened experience of social media we've become used to. When TikTok was first becoming popular in 2018 writers proclaimed a return to the good-fun internet of yore. Then reporting revealed some uncomfortable claims about political censorship and the intentional suppression of posts by people deemed ugly poor or disabled. TikTok says it has updated its procedures but still we had to admit this doesn't sound like the good-fun internet. But it continues to grow and grow at the start of this year it was the most downloaded non-gaming app surpassing WhatsApp and Facebook. In 2019 the company said that 60 of active users in the US are between the ages of 16 and 24. TikTok is the medium of global lockdowns. It is perfect for a splintered attention span that is suddenly plunged into a boredom so extreme that nothing in particular will satiate it. I can't even watch TV any more people are saying. But 15 seconds of a koala sleeping followed by 15 seconds of a teenager dancing with his grandmother feels doable. Throughout lockdown headlines have been describing TikTok as a perfect distraction from lockdown conditions but I don't think that's quite right. It doesn't distract so much as reflect the conditions back to us. TikToks are often compelling precisely because they capture the experience of isolation the creative ingenuity that can come of it; the drive to entertain ourselves and others; the desire for a tenuous connection to a generalised world. A lot of the videos especially those made by young people are inflected with what I can only think of as a powerful yearning for an audience of course but also for a way to pass the time. They play dress-up invent dances imitate movie characters and dye half their hair blond or purple (#lockdownlewks). Watching TikToks while I was bored one day I had the thought that many of them are fundamentally artefacts of boredom tedium-made material. You might wonder who has the time to make them as you while away hours watching teens who haven't seen their friends in months playing multiple parts in skits about their lives. TikTok doesn't feel like a rabbit hole. Instagram is one endless boring scroll through advertisements and ex-friends’ anniversary posts and Twitter is a vortex you could tumble down for hours into jokes and arguments and jokes about the arguments. TikTok where the dominant feed is not your friends but a For You feed curated algorithmically is more like a deluge. Everything is disconnected everything is divorced from context everything is fragmented and vaguely miraculous everything is so fast that it doesn't feel like it's stealing your time. Everything is even more ephemeral than usual the archive is so difficult to search that it can be hard to locate TikToks you might have seen just yesterday. There isn't even the artificially generated nostalgia of resurfaced content on Facebook. It is a kind of eternal present.       There is a lot of silliness on TikTok. There is also plenty of darkness often cut with humour. In one video I can't stop watching someone with the handle @kindakyle is dancing robotically accompanied by a rainbow strobe effect. Overlaid text reads when tik tok has made your attention span so poor that you cant watch youtube videos or netflix anymore bc you arent getting the instant gratification that you can get from this app and you also cant study for more than 5 mins and lose interest in conversations extremely quickly and now you basically have the mental capacity of a hamster and cant focus on one thing to save your life  zoo wee mama    Related How coronavirus helped TikTok find its voice    This has become a sort of meme young people imagining and acting out what their TikTok use might be doing to their brains and then performing it on the app itself. The young people making these videos are funny and self-aware and creative and sad. It's hard to watch and it's also hard to stop watching. The videos repeat and repeat.