A year ago, former Australian prime minister Julia Gillard’s misogyny speech was given new life after it became a viral dancing meme on TikTok during the first wave of Covid-19 lockdowns. Now the woman who created the trend, Abbey Hansen, has interviewed her political muse on TikTok live to celebrate women’s history month. Speaking from London, Gillard discussed the challenges facing women around the world, how she felt giving her 2012 misogyny speech and her excitement about a new generation of feminists. “One of the things that gives me hope is watching your generation of women stepping forward with so much enthusiasm and energy.” When asked what she would have said at the March 4 Justice protests earlier this month, which she missed because she was travelling to London, she said: “I would’ve said turn that anger into action.     Former Australian prime minister Julia Gillard and Abbey Hansen on Tiktok. Photograph: TikTok    “This changing of the culture in Parliament House and beyond, making sure that we live in a world where women are safe and are able to forge their own path without gender based barriers, that takes persistent effort. “So going to a march is absolutely fantastic, but you have to take that anger and turn it into action day by day by day.” Gillard said she faced “a lot of gendered insults and sexism” in her time in parliament, but said she did not regret getting into politics. “I would have absolutely made that decision again. I think feminism comes in waves and I can really feel another major wave is gathering, it’s gathering from activism in our own country and around the world.” TikTok, owned by Chinese company ByteDance, has been investing in more of these big-name events to promote the platform’s lucrative live-streaming capacities – a service that’s primary use currently appears to be watching the D’Amelio sisters or other internet famous teenagers idly do their make-up and answer questions from fans. For the past year, TikToker, musician and midwife Abbey Hansen has been engaging young people in Australia politics. And she has been doing it, for the most part, without her audience realising. It all started last March, when, nervous, bored and deprived of toilet paper in the first lockdown, Hansen started remixing the prime minister’s Covid-19 press conferences with popular Tiktok songs.       “I was just making funny political TikToks about Scott Morrison … and after doing a few of those, I decided to set my sights on somebody that I admire, which is Julia Gillard,” she said. So Hansen grabbed the Doja Cat song Boss Bitch, ripped the audio of Gillard’s misogyny speech off YouTube and filmed herself lip-syncing the first lines.       “I just sort of made it happen on a whim within like, five or 10 minutes. And yeah, then it just sort of took off.” The video quickly attracted more than 1.5m views. “I started reading some of the comments and people really weren’t aware of some of the things that Julia Gillard did in her time as prime minister,” she said. “I started to realise that, ‘Oh, this is actually a really great way to bring some history about politics’ or bring some ideas around policy and stuff to a younger audience or to people that might not normally have thought about politics before and why that’s so important. “I think a lot of it has to do with the fact that, you know, the Covid pandemic has just been just so unprecedented. So everybody really had their eyes on the news … I feel like there was a new audience coming to politics at that time, and I wanted to contribute to the conversation in a way that I felt that I could, which was to make these humorous TikToks.” In a statement provided to Guardian Australia by TikTok, Gillard labelled Hansen’s original video a “positive message of empowerment”. “The creative way she re-imagined my speech on TikTok has opened up a conversation with a new generation on how we can inspire them into leadership positions and remove the barriers currently in their way,” she said. Ahead of the interview, Hansen said she was nervous to meet her idol. “And it’s just been very surreal. Like I can’t believe it’s almost a year to the day [of posting the video]… I’m like, ‘Oh, my gosh, we’ve really come full circle with this’,” she said.