The social-media sensation Wordle began the year being bought by the New York Times for a low seven figures inspiring a host of imitations. Which of the following games isn't real
      
       li class="question__answer answer" data-text="Heardle for guessing song intros
" data-correct="false"Heardle for guessing song intros 
       li class="question__answer answer" data-text="Worldle for guessing countries from their outlines
" data-correct="false"Worldle for guessing countries from their outlines 
       li class="question__answer answer" data-text="Lewdle for guessing dirty words
" data-correct="false"Lewdle for guessing dirty words 
       Brrrdle for guessing Arctic animals
      
     In August as employees continued to butt heads with bosses over the return to the office a new workplace trend was declared on social media quiet quitting. What does it refer to
      
       li class="question__answer answer" data-text="Leaving your job without giving notice or an explanation
" data-correct="false"Leaving your job without giving notice or an explanation 
       li class="question__answer answer" data-text="Working remotely but not actually doing any work 
" data-correct="false"Working remotely but not actually doing any work 
       Spending all Zoom meetings entirely on mute 
       Doing the job you are employed to do and no more
      
     In February a clip of Louis Theroux performing a gentle self-penned rap went viral from TikTok AutoTuned remixed and set to a dance (naturally). But how did he brag in a very Louis way about his good fortunes
      
       My money don't jiggle jiggle it folds
       From Weird Weekends to wealthy weekdays
       Theroux with my mortgage thanks BBC Two
       My Scientology Movie made me L Ron Rich
      
     The slap at the Oscars resonated around the world and was metabolised into memes at record speed. But which peripheral celebrity's take went viral as the last word on the row
      
       A voxpop with former One Directioner Liam Payne
       li class="question__answer answer" data-text="Rita Ora Taika Waititi and Tessa Thompson's co-signed open letter
" data-correct="false"Rita Ora Taika Waititi and Tessa Thompson's co-signed open letter 
       li class="question__answer answer" data-text="Jessica Chastain writing on behalf of Aaron Sorkin writing on behalf of Jeremy Strong 
" data-correct="false"Jessica Chastain writing on behalf of Aaron Sorkin writing on behalf of Jeremy Strong 
       li class="question__answer answer" data-text="Justin Bieber in a Notes app statement
" data-correct="false"Justin Bieber in a Notes app statement 
      
     This year social media turned its collective brainpower towards one big question wheels or doors which are there more of in the world An Australian radio show roped in a mathematician to find an answer once and for all but what was it
      
       There are more doors
       There are more wheels
       There are exactly the same number of wheels and doors
       The problem is insoluble by mathematics
      
     Early in the year people were reporting themselves to be going goblin mode. But what exactly did it mean
      
       Emptying your bank accounts and stashing all your cash at home
       li class="question__answer answer" data-text="Wearing only the oldest clothes you own
" data-correct="false"Wearing only the oldest clothes you own 
       Going out only at night and preferably underground
       Anything to do with slobbing out and giving up 
      
     In May a Reddit user's post about their wild experience at a Swedish friend's family home sparked a lively cross-cultural debate later dubbed Swedengate. But in the Swede's disputed dinner-time faux pas what was the guest asked to do
      
       Wait alone in his room while he and his family ate dinner
       Bring his own food 
       Bring enough food for the whole family
       Provide the evening's entertainment
      
     Don't Worry Darling was a decidedly middling film but the reported drama behind-the-scenes made for rich online speculation and many great memes. But what outlandish rumour got such traction that it prompted an official rebuttal
      
       Harry Styles spat on Chris Pine (allegedly)
       Florence Pugh punched Olivia Wilde (allegedly) 
       Gemma Chan ghost-wrote the script (allegedly)
       Nick Kroll and Harry Styles kissed (allegedly)
      
     After a months-long rigmarole Elon Musk finally bought Twitter and now seems intent on running it into the ground. On his first day what was he seen taking into Twitter HQ for some reason
      
       A bucket for bailing the company out
       A sink for making a splash
       A steering wheel as proof that he's behind it
       A megaphone for amplifying free speech
      
     If 2021 spelled the end of the girlboss 2022 saw the wife guy go the same way with several celebrities who had made their happy marriages central to their public profiles (allegedly) caught cheating. Shabby stuff But at least Maroon 5 singer Adam Levine's (alleged) sexts caused widespread mirth online for their decidedly PG content. Which of the below was not one of Levine's (alleged) real lines
      
       I may need to see the booty
       I need you in my bed
       It is truly unreal how hot you are
       You are 50 times hotter in person
      
    
    Solutions
    1D - Among many many others there is also Taylordle for guessing words relating to Taylor Swift; Nerdle for guessing maths equations; and Turdle for guessing the progenitors of different poos. 2D - As with many of these social media-driven trends its spread and basis in reality is up for debate but it certainly sounds like a good idea  3A - Theroux had written the rap in 2000 for his Weird Weekends docu-series but treated Amelia Dimoldenberg to a rendition of it on her web series Chicken Shop Date. From there TikTok lost its mind. 4A - In an incoherent but apparently heartfelt red-carpet interview with Good Morning Britain Payne pointed to his having once been neighbours with Will Smith as proof of his being qualified to comment on The Slap. It was a powerful moment for me to sit and watch one of the world's best emoters speak from the heart he said.  5A - In the 22-minute segment the mathematician interviewed on the Melbourne-based Fifi Fev &amp; Nick show concluded that there were more doors. The same conclusion was reached separately on TikTok by user @koowaluh whose multi-part equation found that there were 83bn doors in the world and 65bn wheels roughly speaking of course. 6D - Goblin mode proponents said was not a style of dress but a state of mind a backlash to the hyper-manicured aesthetic of Instagram and extension of the relaxed beauty standards of the pandemic. It is a scrambling of the brain explained the writer Cat Marnell. 7A - While we were playing in his room his mom yelled that dinner was ready. And check this. He told me to WAIT in his room while they ate wrote the scandalised Reddit user. In the fallout a food historian explained to NPR that in Sweden and many Nordic cultures it is more rude to offer people a favour such as food because it engenders a sense of debt. 8A - A video at Venice film festival appeared to show Styles depositing spittle into Pine's lap and sent the internet into a frenzy forcing Pine's rep to publicly respond in the negative. Kroll and Styles did kiss however 9B - Musk was photographed carrying a kitchen sink into Twitter's San Francisco offices and later tweeted Let that sink in Since then laboured puns and sight gags have been the least of his problems as he has attempted to run the platform. 10B - One of Levine's (alleged) compliments of Instagram model Sumner Stroh That body of yours is absurd sparked a meme much merriment and even reported analysis such as this in a piece from Cosmopolitan Why are Adam Levine's alleged sexts so awkward 
    Scores
    
     " data-min-score="10"10 and above.Top work. You might be more qualified to run Twitter than Elon
     " data-min-score="7"7 and above.Good stuff Just try not to think about how that mental real-estate might be put to better use…
     " data-min-score="0"0 and above.Well on the upside at least it looks like you got a lot of fresh air this year.
     " data-min-score="4"4 and above.A middling effort but maybe you're best off not knowing some of this stuff anyway.