I am becoming a better person against my will. I was in no mood to change or grow. I had not reached a turning point and I have never declared that enough is enough. I was in the process of having a delightful nap right on my laurels. If anything, I was actively trying to waste my time. But sadly, sickeningly, I have undergone self-improvement. Worst of all, I know where the blame lies – TikTok. TikTok was the first app that really made me feel old. Or, worse, realise that I am not young any more. I did not understand it, I did not have the energy to engage with it, and I had no desire to ever post on it. Starting a TikTok account in your 30s felt like investing in a toupee. Just let it go, dude, it’s over. I was very much of the opinion that TikTok was primarily for choreographed dances performed to the same eight seconds of a song you heard in a Cotton On once and clips from Family Guy season four with captions like “Stewie Wilding FR”.   Related: The Oscars slap that launched a thousand takes. Plus: what is ‘short king spring’, and why?    This assumption, it turns out, was absolutely correct. But! There is another important aspect that I had not realised. The much-vaunted TikTok algorithm greatly rewards useful information delivered simply. This is something creators have noticed and pounced on. I was shocked. Social media apps aren’t meant to improve your life. They’re designed to help you find your niche and use that niche to slowly erode your sanity. Now, when you use the app you get your serving of dances, Stewie behaving in a way a baby absolutely shouldn’t behave, endlessly repetitive low-effort prank videos but also tutorials, lifehacks, and worthwhile bits of knowledge. A quick flick through while definitely not procrastinating writing this very article delivered me a tutorial on the vanishing point in art, a guide to men’s wedding fashion by the season, how to get perfect form on incline dumbbell presses and a LinkedIn page optimisation strategy, all delivered with the backing track of the same annoying nine seconds of a song and intercut with clips of a guy walking around a Woolworths saying something rude and pretending he’s actually talking to a friend on the phone. As a long-term user of the other major social media platforms, I have felt my once functional brain slowly turn into a kind of cold porridge through hours of endless scrolling. Now it seems as if at the very least I am getting some benefit out of the process, like I’m receiving a tasty baked treat for the small fee of allowing the Chinese government to fire electrodes directly into my brain for an hour. It has permeated every aspect of my life. The meals I proudly present at dinner parties are from TikTok, the exercises I struggle through at the gym I’ve learned from TikTok, and while my fashion sense hasn’t particularly changed, I can at least recognise why it’s so awful now.  Sign up for the fun stuff with our rundown of must-reads, pop culture and tips for the weekend, every Saturday morning      Sign up to receive Guardian Australia’s weekend culture and lifestyle email   Of course, it wouldn’t be social media without a horrible dark side just under the surface. If you’re male and interested in workout or dieting content, the app will every so often see if you’d like to flirt with the soft alt-right. Oh, you like lat raises? Well, here’s a strange man in a lecture hall delivering two minutes on the psychology of the female brain. Plus, you would be hard-pressed to find an app that’s more bald-faced in its consumerism. ‘TikTok Made Me Buy It’ is a regular catchcry. There’s an abundance of accounts where stringy twentysomethings try to trigger artificial bumps to shitcoins. And the whole thing is designed to steal our data while it slow-cooks our brains. Be that as it may, it is more energetic, fun and downright useful than any of the other major social media apps. What I am saying, dear Guardian reader, is that you should follow my lead, overcome your scepticism, and give this app a try. That way, we can ruin it the same way we’ve ruined all the other social platforms and I’ll finally go outside and touch some grass.  James Colley is a writer and comedian based in Sydney 