UK publishing's total income reached a new high of £6.7bn in 2021 up 5 from 2020. This growth comes despite or perhaps because of the pandemic with the social media platform TikTok emerging as a surprise driving force not only for new books but backlist purchases. While the Covid lockdowns forced bookshops to close and subsequent supply chain issues caused delays and headaches for publishers the appetite for reading soared with sales up by 5 year on year for both print and digital books while audiobooks continued the stellar performance of recent years with a 14 rise in sales according to a report from the Publishers Association. And TikTok is helping younger readers in particular discover books through what Publishers Association chief executive Stephen Lotinga called organic interactions rather than publisher-led promotion. He said A huge amount of what is being driven by TikTok is in print sales and we are finding a lot of young adults are discovering books they love sharing them with friends and driving sales and new interest and that can only be a good thing. He added that BookTokkers were often eschewing the latest releases and instead rediscovering books that are sometimes decades old. An extreme example was how just before Christmas an unexpected hit was Cain's Jawbone written as a murder mystery puzzle by Edward Powys Mathers under the pen-name Torquemada in 1934. It became popular when TikTok user Sarah Scannell posted a series of videos charting her quest to solve the puzzle. A more recent book We Were Liars by E Lockhart was published in 2014 but gained a new lease of life when it was rediscovered on the social media app last year giving it said Lotinga four or five times the sales it had had in 2020. He added that TikTok users were replicating the time-honoured sales method that bookshop staff have often employed suggesting books to shoppers that they might like. And that's one area that the pandemic hit hard leaving online retailers Amazon chief among them to capitalise.   Related UK book sales in 2021 highest in a decade    A sale is not just to the publishing industry said Lotinga. He voiced disquiet at Amazon's domination of the retail trade. While the industry has done well during the pandemic we have seen further consolidation of sales on a single digital market platform he said. Such a lack of competition cannot benefit readers in the long term and that is why it is more important than ever that the government meets its commitment to bring forward new powers to properly regulate the tech giants in the forthcoming Queen's speech. Two thirds of books bought in physical bookshops are unplanned purchases picked up because they caught the buyer's eye. Conversely the same proportion of book sales online are planned shoppers go to buy precisely what they are looking for and don't browse for other things while there. Of the £6.7bn sales of all books in 2021 £2.7bn of that was domestic UK sales a rise of 7 and £3.8bn export sales up 2. Print was up 5 digital the same and consumer books up 4. Fiction sales rose by 7 accounting for £733m of sales and children's fiction was up by the same proportion. It was feared that audiobook sales might take a hit during the pandemic as people were not commuting on public transport or driving but audio downloads were up 14 to £151m. Lotinga said The interesting thing is that audio sales do not cannibalise other parts of the industry it doesn't mean a book less being sold. Audio is bringing people into reading and a lot of that is because it's so easy to consume audiobooks now especially with smart speakers. The association is calling on the government to scrap VAT on audiobooks as it did on ebooks in 2020 saying that it had long been the claimed policy of political parties not to tax reading. Lotinga said Other countries in Europe have managed to do this and we urge the government to do the same. More than 300000 people in the UK are registered as visually impaired and access to audiobooks is not a luxury it's how many people fundamentally get to consume literature.