The corporate watchdog has warned Instagram and other social media influencers that they need a licence to give financial advice and face up to five years in jail if they break the law. In a new information sheet aimed at so-called finfluencers issued on Monday the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (Asic) took aim at social media stock-tippers who promise big returns or promise the investments they recommend are as good as putting money in the bank. The regulator also warned influencers who earn money through affiliate links that send readers to online brokers that they may be providing a financial service which also requires a licence.   Related Launch of .au domains will allow Australians to drop .com from web addresses    Financial influencers wield significant power among younger people looking to invest with an Asic survey last year finding a third of Australians between 18 and 21 followed one on social media and that a further 64 reported changing their behaviour due to finfluencer posts. Influencers range from flashy Instagram star and Asic target Tyson Scholz who depicts his life of luxury under the handle @asxwolf_ts posting pictures of sports cars and a yacht he describes as his mobile trading office through to earnest podcasters who provide advice on how to navigate the complex world of investing.       Asic is suing Scholz in the federal court accusing him of operating a financial services business without a licence. The regulator said it suspects Scholz is doing so by delivering training courses and seminars about trading in securities on the ASX as well as by offering stock tips and access to a Discord chat server named Black Wolf Pit. The Guardian understands Scholz is contesting Asic's allegations and Scholz's lawyers Sydney firm Horton Rhodes were contacted for comment. The case returns to court next month. It is crucial that influencers who discuss financial products and services online comply with the financial services laws Asic commissioner Cathie Armour said. If they don't they risk substantial penalties and put investors at risk. Aleks Nikolic a 27-year-old who hates the word influencer but posts financial investment content on Instagram TikTok and Twitter under the moniker @brokegirlwealth said Asic's move brought welcome clarity. I think it's some of their clearest and best comms they've ever put out potentially ever she said. She said financial influencers were often not lawyers and more akin to consumers than the institutions such as banks and brokers that traditionally give advice. I think they've really taken on a lot of comment that certainly I've made in the past that it was confusing and the target market was sophisticated companies with legal teams that could craft policies she said. Obviously everyone will now madly scramble to become compliant but that was the point. Nikolic who does not have an Australian financial services licence said she would take time to review her content to see if it needed to be changed. She said she would also need to decide whether to remove affiliate links on her site sending readers to an online broker. I'm just glad they have been as prescriptive as they have been because they've put down some really clear guidelines for financial content producers she said. I think we've already seen action by Asic against promoters that have pretty blatant consumer harm. We've seen crypto schemes pump and dump schemes people who have been building portfolios for people without having an Australian financial services licence.