TikTok addicts will be able to further limit their time on the app the company has said with a new pair of screen-time settings coming to the service imminently. Like many of its competitors TikTok already allows users to set a maximum screen-time allowance for each day to help them stop idling away hours at a time scrolling through the for you page.   Related How to help your children make the most of their screen time    Now the company will also let users set time limits before requiring a break after a certain amount of uninterrupted screen time a figure the user can set themselves if they wish. A new screen-time dashboard will also provide feedback for TikTok users about the amount of time they spend on the app how often they open it and a breakdown of their day and night-time usage. At TikTok we believe that our digital experiences should bring us joy entertainment connection and enrichment a TikTok blogpost said. Having a positive relationship with digital devices and apps isn't just about measuring screen time it's also about feeling in control of how we use technology and ensuring that the time we spend online contributes positively to our sense of wellbeing. That's why we're taking a number of steps today to help support our community's digital wellbeing as they create and discover on TikTok. The settings aren't just being provided because of TikTok's concern for users’ wellbeing. Social networks have a strong motivation to offer their own screen-time controls in case people decide to activate the stricter controls built into both the iOS and Android smartphone platforms. New requirements introduced last summer require technology companiesto be more aware of how their services are used by children.     Sign up to First Edition our free daily newsletter every weekday morning at 7am BST   Earlier this week Apple announced a new set of options in its own screen time feature aimed at making it easier for parents to manage the screen time of their children. Kids can now send a text request to their parents for extra screen time and have it approved in-app rather than needing to hand their phone over and have a passcode entered. And parents can now automatically set up phones with a single collection of recommended settings based on the child's age and with screen-time limits and bedtimes enforced automatically.