Have we recovered from the victory hangover There were iconic scenes at Melbourne's Federation Square prompting envy in the harbour city where no such live site exists. That will be remedied for this Sunday's Socceroos clash with Argentina with the New South Wales government announcing it will set up a live site in the Sydney CBD specific location TBD. 
The victory was a heartfelt tale for player Bailey Wright who shortly after leaving the field received a text from his wife about the condition of his seriously ill mother-in-law. 
I've just come in from a message from my wife Wright said. I just want to dedicate this to my wife bless her and her mum. I'll be honest I'm not sure if she's still with us. 
Top news 
 
  
  Fleetwood Mac singer-songwriter Christine McVie has died. Photograph Evening Standard/Getty Images 
  
 
 
 Christine McVie dies  The voice behind Fleetwood Mac classics including Everywhere and Don't Stop has passed away peacefully following a short illness. She was 79 years old. Tributes have flowed from across the music industry with sometimes fellow band member and Crowded House frontman Neil Finn calling McVie a supremely gifted songwriter and a warm and wonderful friend. 
 Concussion in sport  An inquiry proposed by the Greens with Labor and Coalition support will examine concussion and repeated head trauma in contact sports at all levels for all genders and age groups. It comes amid growing concern about chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) a disease which former AFL concussion doctor Paul McCrory has been accused of downplaying the risks of. 
 Medibank hacker's data dump  The cyber-criminals behind the Medibank hack have declared case closed after posting a file on the dark web that looks to be the remainder of the customer data they acquired. The health insurer said it was in the process of analysing the data but that it appears to be the data we believed the criminal stole. 
 
 
  
  A popular TikTok challenge has resulted in the platform banning videos promoting tanning. Photograph Mike Blake/Reuters 
  
 
 
 TikTok tanning ban  The social media company will ban videos that encourage tanning and add educational content to its platform in its place after concerns raised by Australian medical experts. In September Melanoma Institute Australia co-medical directors Prof Georgina Long and Prof Richard Scolyer took issue with the app for its popular #sunburnchallenge hashtag. 
 Emissions target falling short  Australia is on track for a 40 reduction in emissions by 2030 short of the 43 target set by the Albanese government. The climate change minister Chris Bowen said the projection is still an improvement on the Morrison government when projections were at only 30. That is we've lifted the outlook by a third in just our first six months Bowen said. 
 US railroad strike  The House of Representatives voted to approve a bill to block a railroad strike after president Joe Biden called on Congress to intervene warning the strike would devastate our economy. The sticking point is a demand for sick pay which is not provided to workers. Progressive pushback in support of worker demands resulted in a second House vote to mandate sick pay but it's unclear whether that will pass the Senate. 
 
 
  
 
 
 China economy worries  As well as prompting social unrest there are signs China's zero-Covid strategy is throttling the world's second largest economy. China's GDP is forecast to grow by 3.2 this year well below the official target of 5.5. This would make 2022 the slowest year for GDP growth in more than 40 years excluding the Covid-affected rate in 2020. The IMF said this forecast could be cut even further. 
 Iranian shot dead  Mehran Samak 27 was shot dead by security forces after honking his car horn in celebration of Iran's exit from the World Cup. Samak was targeted directly and shot in the head by security forces … following the defeat of the national team against America the Oslo-based group Iran Human Rights said. 
 
 
  
  What has changed at Collingwood since the Do Better report found systemic racism at the club Photograph Quinn Rooney/Getty Images 
  
 
 
 Collingwood Do Better  It's been two years since an expert review found systemic racism at the AFL club. The club says it's undergone significant transformation since and I've spent the day chatting to the president and current and past players to see what's changed. Keep your eyes on our site story will be up 8.30pm tonight and thanks to my colleague Kris Swales for helping with this newsletter today while I was down at the club. 
 
Full Story 
 
  
  Anthony Albanese was once known as a fierce partisan fighter. How is he reckoning with his role as the leader of a progressive parliament Photograph Lukas Coch/AAP 
  
 
Anthony Albanese and the new politics with Katharine Murphy 
The Labor party went to the 2022 election promising Australians a new kind of politics. Six months on is the party living up to this promise Listen to this 26-minute episode. 
  
  
   
  
  
 
What they said … 
 
  
  Australia's Mathew Leckie celebrates with Riley McGree after scoring the Socceroo's first and only goal against Denmark. Photograph Thanassis Stavrakis/AP 
  
 
*** 
Everyone was buzzing screaming a lot of nonsense. So much emotion. But we want to dream big and when we came to this tournament we always said we want to get out of the group. The first thing Arnie said was Let's go one more.’ Mathew Leckie 
The star's goal advanced Australia to the World Cup's last 16 where they'll face powerhouse Argentina. That match will be played this Sunday 6am AEDT. 
In numbers 
 
  
 
These are results from two separate surveys conducted by the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Australia Institute. 
Before bed read 
 
  
  Guardian Australia has put together a guide to the best events of summer. Composite Getty/Rex/Shutterstock 
  
 
We're handpicking the most unmissable arts festivals and gigs in every major city all through December January and February. Whether you're looking for free things to do in Sydney today family-friendly shows in Melbourne this weekend or what's coming up this month in Brisbane or Perth search our guide to find what's on near you. 
Sign up 
If you would like to receive this Afternoon Update to your email inbox every weekday sign up here. And start your day with a curated breakdown of the key stories you need to know. Sign up for our Morning Mail newsletter here.