Politicians on TikTok will no longer be able to use the app tipping tools nor access advertising features on the social network as the company tightens its policies around political issues in the run-up to the US midterm elections in six weeks’ time. Political advertising is already banned on the platform alongside harmful misinformation but as TikTok has grown over the past two years new features such as gifting tipping and ecommerce have been embraced by some politicians on the site. Now new rules will again limit political players’ ability to use the app for anything other than organic activity to help ensure TikTok remains a fun positive and joyful experience the company said. TikTok has long prohibited political advertising including both paid ads on the platform and creators being paid directly to make branded content it added. We currently do that by prohibiting political content in an ad and we're also now applying restrictions at an account level.  This means accounts belonging to politicians and political parties will automatically have their access to advertising features turned off which will help us more consistently enforce our existing policy. Political accounts will be blocked from other monetisation features and will also be removed from eligibility for the company's creator fund which distributes cash to some of the most successful video producers on the site.  They will also be banned from using the platform for campaign fundraising such as a video from a politician asking for donations or a political party directing people to a donation page on their website the service has said. TikTok is first and foremost an entertainment platform and we're proud to be a place that brings people together over creative and entertaining content. By prohibiting campaign fundraising and limiting access to our monetisation features we're aiming to strike a balance between enabling people to discuss the issues that are relevant to their lives while also protecting the creative entertaining platform that our community wants. The rules are in contrast to those of Meta's Facebook and Instagram both of which have long allowed political advertising and encouraged politicians to use their services for campaigning purposes.  In August Meta announced its own set of policy updates for the US midterm elections and promised to devote hundreds of people across more than 40 teams to ensuring the safety and security of the elections. Meta will ban all new political electoral and social issue adverts on both its platforms for the final weeks of the campaign its head of global affairs Nick Clegg said and will remove adverts that encourage people not to vote or call into question the legitimacy of the election.  But the company won't remove organic content that does the same. After years of being effectively unregulated more and more countries are bringing online political advertising under the aegis of electoral authorities. On Monday Google said it would begin a program that ensured that political emails never get sent to spam folders after Republican congressional leaders accused it of partisan censorship and introduced legislation to try to ban the practice.  We expect to begin the pilot with a small number of campaigns from both parties and will test whether these changes improve the user experience and provide more certainty for senders during this election period the company said in a statement.