Aspiring dancers are risking injury by copying advanced moves and taking part in viral challenges on TikTok, leading dance organisations have warned. The Royal Academy of Dance says young people should be careful when attempting to recreate moves by professional dancers, or taking part in challenges on social media. In an interview with The Stage, artistic director, Gerard Charles, says that while the platform can be a great inspiration for amateur dancers, supervision from a trained teacher is key to avoiding injury. “Watching dance on TikTok can provide great inspiration, but without an experienced and qualified teacher who understands physical development and age-appropriate movement, it is all too easy for copying what is seen on social media to lead to injuries,” he said. Louise Molton, the director of education at the Imperial Society of Teachers of Dancing, encouraged aspiring dancers to consider formal training.   Related: Families sue TikTok after girls died while trying ‘blackout challenge’    “Repetition of routines without targeted feedback does not support technical and artistic development and can lead to injury and poor practice,” she said. “Learning without a teacher, who can provide correction in the early stages of any physical activity, could be dangerous and could lead to permanent injury or damage later in life.” Last week the American actor Kyra Sedgwick was pictured with an ice pack on her wrist after attempting the “Footloose Drop”, a current TikTok dance trend.       Her husband, Kevin Bacon, who starred in the film, shared the picture of Sedgwick, 56, on Instagram, with the caption: “The aftermath of nailing a TikTok dance #Footloose”, after the couple successfully pulled off the move. In 2020, a spate of TikTok users reportedly became injured after attempting a complicated set of moves to “WAP” by Cardi B and Megan Thee Stallion during the first Covid lockdown.     Sign up to First Edition, our free daily newsletter – every weekday morning at 7am BST   According to the New York Post, at least one aspiring dancer was taken to hospital after copying the viral dance which includes splits, twerking and a leaping high kick. TikTok has, however, also won praise for its inclusivity and for encouraging young people to discover new interests. Danielle Drayton, the creative director at Blue Fish Entertainments, said breaking moves down into short tutorials can be more engaging for social media users than a formal lesson. “With inspiring companies such as the Rockettes or the cast of Dance Moms breaking down a dance move in 15 to 30 seconds, at times dance can seem less tedious online than in a class,” she said. TikTok advises anyone starting a new fitness programme or exercise routine to seek advice or guidance from a qualified professional.