The economy is losing steam inflation is beginning to ease and unemployment is up three trends the Reserve Bank wants to see as it considers a 10th consecutive hike to interest rates. 
Australia's GDP grew 0.5 in the December quarter slower than the 0.8 tipped by economists while inflation in January was 7.4 down from 8.4 in December and short of the 8.1 predicted by economists. Unemployment also rose in January from 3.5 to 3.7. 
I'm confident the worst of inflation is behind us rather than ahead of us the treasurer Jim Chalmers said. 
Will it be enough to convince the RBA not to raise interest rates next week Probably not according to our economics correspondent Peter Hannam who said The RBA remains an odds-on favourite to lift its key interest rate when its board meets next Tuesday. At its February rates meeting the RBA made it clear more interest rate rises were in the works and it would be require an abrupt change of course for them to avert a 10th rate rise in a row next week. 
Top news 
 
  
  Toyah Cordingley 24 whose body was found on a beach north of Cairns in 2018. The man suspected of murdering her has been extradited from India to Australia. Photograph Qld Police/AAP 
  
 
 
 Rajwinder Singh lands in Australia  The man suspected of murdering Cairns woman Toyah Cordingley in 2018 touched down at Melbourne airport today escorted by Queensland police officers. Singh was extradited from India and taken to a Melbourne magistrates court before an expected move to Cairns. 
 Regional towns squeezed by population influx  The post-pandemic sea change is real raising concerns of pressure on services in regional communities. Thirteen regional local government areas around the country recorded a jump in net internal migration levels of more than 100 through 2022 with regional Queensland and Victoria taking the largest share of movers. 
 
 
  
  Labor's Ged Kearney speaking at the Sydney WorldPride Human Rights Conference. Photograph Bianca de Marchi/EPA 
  
 
 
 $26m for LGBTQ+ health research  The federal government announcement has been hailed by Equality Australia as a gamechanger that will save lives. The government will also announce a 10-year national action plan for the health and wellbeing of LGBTIQA+ people to address health disparities and improve systems. 
 Labor leading in NSW polls  With less than three weeks before the 25 March state election the Resolve Political Monitor poll is pointing to a majority Labor victory. It found Labor's primary vote had increased one percentage point to 38 while the Coalition's had dropped two points to 32. 
 
 
  
  More than 30 people have been killed in a train crash in Greece. Photograph Achilleas Chiras/EPA 
  
 
 
 Deadly Greece train crash  At least 32 people have been killed and dozens injured after a head-on crash between passenger and cargo trains near the town of Tempe in central Greece. 
 Finland building fence on Russian border  Helsinki is boosting its security as it edges closer to joining Nato with construction of a new fence along parts of its 1340km border with Russia. Finland and neighbouring Sweden abandoned decades of non-alignment to apply for Nato membership after Russia's invasion of Ukraine. 
 
 
  
  Beijing says US bans on the Chinese-owned app TikTok are overstretching the concept of national security'. Photograph Florence Lo/Reuters 
  
 
 
 China hits back over TikTok bans  The US decision to ban Chinese-owned TikTok on government devices is abusing state power a Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson has said. China which itself has banned YouTube Twitter Facebook and Instagram said the US was showing its insecurities by fearing a young person's favourite app. Canada joined the US on the ban this week while the Australian treasurer Jim Chalmers today said Canberra would look to national security agencies to decide whether to follow suit. 
 Walking 11 minutes a day  … could prevent 10 of premature deaths according to the largest ever study of its kind. It equates to 75 minutes of moderate intensity activity a week which is also enough to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease by 17 and cancer by 7. So get walking 
 
Full Story 
 
  
  Full Story discusses the Indigenous voice to parliament referendum. Photograph Mike Bowers/The Guardian 
  
 
The money rules and major players behind the voice referendum 
The yes and no campaigns are beginning to heat up with donations rolling in powerful groups and individuals vowing support and events being held around the country. Who are the major players We discuss in this 24-minute podcast episode. 
  
  
   
  
  
 
What they said … 
 
  
  Independent MP Allegra Spender says we need to consider other tax options'. Photograph Lukas Coch/AAP 
  
 
*** 
Let's talk about our whole tax system. Not just one tax at a time … We need to consider other tax options. For example what about a minerals resource rent tax for future mining Allegra Spender 
Tax is all the rave in Canberra this week after the government announced its plan to change superannuation tax concessions. While the right have attacked Labor's tweak to super independents such as Spender want the government to go beyond superannuation noting the huge profits made by fossil fuel companies in the wake of the Ukraine war. 
In numbers 
 
  
 
It's a 15 increase on the previous reporting period which Queensland police are attributing to better reporting of violence against partners and family members. 
Before bed read 
 
  
  A Bryde's whale feeding in the Gulf of Thailand. Photograph Surachai Passada/Department of Marine and Coastal Resources 
  
 
Modern science and ancient mythology have found a point of convergence on whales. 
Old Norse mythology refers to a large sea creature the hafgufa that lies still with its mouth open waiting for fish to hop right in. A maritime archaeologist at Flinders University in Adelaide has recently discovered the ancient texts were describing albeit more colourfully a whale feeding technique that scientists have only documented in recent years. 
Daily word game 
 
  
 
Today's starter word is IRES. You have five goes to get the longest word that includes the starter word. Play Wordiply. 
Sign up 
If you would like to receive this Afternoon Update to your email inbox every weekday sign up here. And start your day with a curated breakdown of the key stories you need to know. Sign up for our Morning Mail newsletter here.