After attempts digest romance novels Google artificial intelligence projects accidentally writing poetry make fictional Vogons proud world.there sight.they ones mattered.they ones left.he him.i wanted kill him.i started cry.i turned Google working Stanford University University Massachusetts US enhance natural language skills AI technique called recurrent neural network language model RNNLM used machine translation image captioning tasks It essentially builds sentences single word time analysing previous words sentence Related Poetry expresses human therapy soul Adam O Riordan Currently RNNLM capable implementing global themes features set topic sentence generation Each sentence produced algorithms doesn necessarily flow smoothly The work published paper Cornell University open scientific paper archive arXiv details researcher efforts add ability apply global theme sentence generation using called variational autoencoder results including easily mistaken poetry Some arguably Douglas Adams run money creator Vogons Hitchhiker Guide Galaxy Ode Small Lump Green Putty I Found My Armpit One Midsummer Morning recital audience members died internal haemorrhaging president Mid-Galactic Arts Nobbling Council survived gnawing legs according book The researchers fed starting ending sentences asked gap Below bolded text researchers gave algorithm text produced The results generated machine based learnt thousands romance novels topics dramatic according authors paper silent long moment.he silent moment.it quiet moment.it dark cold.there pause.it turn way.it way.it turn blink.it hard tell.it time on.he again.they looked other.they turned look back.they turned face him.they turned walked away The generated sentences make grammatical sense maintain sort theme fit start end sentence Others weren quite poetic maintain theme set start ending sentences said. said. said. know said. thank said. come said. talk said. don worry said don like said.i waited happened.it thirty years ago.it thirty years ago.that years ago.he died years ago.ten thirty years ago. right here. right here. right here.it right here.we right here.come minutes The results show interesting improvements ability machine generate sentences make sense led human-like interactions AI chatbots Google Now Move chatbots meet artbots Facebook spammy chatbots improve fast Yes androids dream electric sheep