Microsoft and Google have fallen out over EU proposals to ensure that internet search engine users can be guaranteed complete anonymity after six months, it emerged today. Microsoft, the world's biggest software group but a small player in the EU search market, is proposing that the industry adopts a common standard for "anonymisation" in line with the recent call from EU privacy regulators. Its proposal comes ahead of Wednesday's meeting of the EU's so-called Article 29 working party which embraces privacy regulators in all 27 member states and which is to discuss the issue. John Vassallo, Microsoft's vice-president European Affairs and associate general counsel, said his company supported the EU's proposal guaranteeing complete anonymity of search data after six months — provided others followed suit. But Peter Fleischer, Google's global privacy counsel, said his company had not been forewarned of Microsoft's conditional offer. Google, which has 80% of the European search market compared with Microsoft's 2%, this year moved to anonymise IP (internet provider) addresses after nine months compared with the previous 18 months. Vassallo told the Guardian that Microsoft also insisted that the entire IP address and all other cross-session identifiers such as persistent cookie IDs should be removed to ensure that it was impossible to connect search terms back to an individual user. But Fleischer, recently appointed to a panel of five experts on the working party which is to update the EU's privacy rules, argues against this, saying that removing the last four digits of an IP address is sufficient. Microsoft insists, however, that partial approaches are not adequate to protect privacy. Brendan Lynch, director of privacy strategy, said it was essential for search companies to remove the ability for search terms to be linked to each other — or to an individual computer. The two groups at least agree that data should be retained for a limited period to allow their engineers to refine search quality and enhance security. Lynch said it helped guard against fraud and/or prevent mechanical click-ons on advertising links. Vassallo added: "What we're trying make as a statement is that the internet depends on trust and confidence and we think that we have the right form of security in keeping this data anonymous. If everybody moved to six months it would be doable." Microsoft admits that its proposal could enhance its attractiveness to European consumers concerned about privacy but insists it cannot go it alone because this would put it at a competitive disadvantage with advertisers and protect only a small portion of internet users. Effectively shunning its proposal, Google's Fleischer said his company was working with data protection officials, governments and privacy advocates to find ways to improve privacy. "We will continue to work constructively with the authorities," he said.