Google has applied its massive data-collecting power for the first time to prediction of the spread of disease, with the launch of a site that claims to be able to raise the alarm over flu outbreaks up to two weeks in advance of existing public services. Google Flu Trends takes the general search tracking technology pioneered by Google Trends and applies it specifically to influenza. The firm's engineers claim to have devised a way of analysing millions of individual searches related to the disease that in tests proved to correlate closely with the actual incidence of illness. That gives them the potential ability to predict rises in flu cases - information that could be used by health professionals to warn the public or plan their responses. Google found that if it assembled a cluster of queries people used when they were worried about flu - such as "flu symptoms", "chest congestion" or "where to buy a thermometer" - the aggregated trends were a strong indicator of flu levels across America. "We wanted to step back and see if we couldn't model a real-world phenomenon using search query data," said Jeremy Ginsberg, a Google engineer involved in developing the system. He added that flu had been chosen as the pioneer illness to be tracked as it was a disease that killed hundreds of thousands of people around the world each year. To ascertain the potential accuracy of the data, Google compared its figures against statistics filed over the past five years by the US Centres for Disease Control, which has a network of 1,500 doctors across the US who provide weekly reports on the number of patients complaining of flu-like symptoms. "We found we could highly accurately estimate what the flu activity levels would be in subsequent years," Ginsberg said. They also found that the Google statistics, which can be gathered daily, were up to two weeks ahead of the federal government's data, which took time to assemble because it came from so many doctors. The ability to speed up the response of health services could prove invaluable in the event of a vicious outbreak, or the emergence of a virulent strain. The results of Google's comparisons with official health statistics will be published in the science journal Nature. Google hopes to extend the service to other countries, and may in time include other illnesses.  At present, the flu data is given for each of the 50 US states, though questions have inevitably been raised about whether it could eventually be applied to individual cities or even neighbourhoods and if so what possible effect that could have on local economies. The company says there are no privacy issues involved as the trends are gathered through combining millions of anonymous searches. But civil liberties groups are watching Google closely as it rapidly diversifies its data storage capacity. The company has already moved into the areas of individual and public health. It is exploring ways of compiling health information and fusing it with its other services, such as Google maps, and is experimenting with a tool that allows users to store their personal health information through Google sites. The innovation is part of a technology known as digital detection that is designed to apply online information to public health mapping. Google recently announced that its philanthropic arm was investing millions of dollars in companies such as Health Map and ProMED that are at the forefront of tracking the spread of disease, and sound the alarm as outbreaks occur. Web watching Using information from Google Trends to understand the behaviour of internet users has become commonplace on the web. Some trendwatchers tried to use the service to predict who was going to win the presidential election - particularly during the primaries that led to Barack Obama and John McCain being picked to run for the White House. Others have looked to it as a way to help improve the search engine ranking of their website - by picking popular terms and therefore being discovered by more people. Last month one organisation claimed internet fraudsters and virus writers were using data from Google Trends to help make their shady websites more popular. But the strangest use came when a man from Florida used Google Trends in his defence against obscenity charges.