Google increased its global dominance in the search advertising market over rivals such as Yahoo in the third quarter of 2008, according to a report. The report, by search marketing agency Efficient Frontier, found that Google extended its lead in the search ad market in all the major global territories in the three months to the end of September. In the UK, Google stole one percentage point of market share from Yahoo, which yesterday reported a 64% profits plunge between the second and third quarters, and 1,500 job cuts. Google now controls 86.7% of UK search spending, according to Efficient Frontier. Across Europe, excluding the UK, Google gained 0.4 of a percentage point of the search ad market against Yahoo in the third quarter compared with the second quarter. Google now controls 92.5% of the European search advertising market. Google took 2.2 percentage points quarter on quarter from Yahoo in Australia, while in Japan the search engine giant picked up 1.7 percentage points from its internet rival. In the US, Google has taken 2.1 percentage points of market share from Yahoo between the third quarter last year and the same period in 2008 to control 71.4% of the US search ad market. "Google continued to gain market share during the third quarter 2008," said the Efficient Frontier general manager for Europe, David White.  "Just as financial investors observe a flight to quality during a turbulent economy, likewise marketers are today leaning towards efficient marketing channels like search engine marketing. Google, as the leading search engine, is the main beneficiary of this. They have the audience, the technology and the tools that advertisers need to get the most out of search." Google recently reported better than expected third-quarter results, defying the economic downturn with a 31% boost in revenue and 26% rise in profits. · To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332. · If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".