Google is now rolling out a new feature, which it calls Translated Search. The Official Google Blog post, Searching the global web just got a little easier, says:   Translated search is great because it helps you find information from sites written in other languages. We've offered this feature in Google Translate for a while, but now we're integrating it fully into Google search, making it easier for you to find and read results from pages across the web, even if they weren't written in a language you speak.  It's not obvious. To use the feature, you have to click the "Show options…" link, then look at the bottom of the menu column for "Translated search". Which in my case I have not got.  Google says: "You can display results for up to five languages at once and select from 51 languages to search." Google has also made it easier to translate words between multiple languages, though this feature is presented as a dictionary at http://www.google.com/dictionary. If you're lucky with your look-up, this will give you a result from what seems to be an actual Google dictionary. In most of the cases I tried, however, the dictionary only offered "Web definitions" -- links to words looked up on a subset of web sites. You could do something like this yourself using Google Custom Search.  Of course, if Google has a definition for a word, you were already able to get it on the main search page by clicking on the [definition] link, visible in lines such as  Results 1 - 10 of about 29,300,000 for dictionary [definition]. (0.11 seconds)  If the [definition] link isn't there, then you might as well go to http://dictionary.reference.com/ and get a good quality result. If it is there, then clicking it takes you to http://www.google.com/dictionary anyway. So why didn't Google just buy a decent dictionary? It's not like they couldn't afford it, and Google's obviously not averse to buying companies: it's picked up dozens, including Blogger, YouTube, Picasa, Android, FeedBurner, Keyhole (Google Earth), Last (Google Sketchup), Applied Semantics (Google AdSense), Urchin (Google Analytics), JotSpot and Writely (Google Docs). Perhaps it will, one day. At the moment, however, the attraction of Google.com/dictionary is that, as I said, it makes it easier to translate words between multiple languages. You can, for example, enter a word then choose English-French or English-Hindi or whatever and get the equivalent. It's certainly worth bearing that in mind for the times you might need it.