As we suggested earlier today, Twitter is making searches of its public timeline - all the tweets there are being made - available through Microsoft's Bing search engine. In a blog post, Twitter's Biz Stone explains:   there are already tens of thousands of Twitter apps and more to come because people want the choice to consume and create tweets wherever and whenever they prefer. The folks over at Bing took a keen interest in Twitter and worked fast to establish a working relationship with us in line with our open approach.   Twitter is providing Bing access to the overwhelming deluge of public, real-time tweets rushing in from all around the world so they can help you find those that make the most sense right now. While Twitter currently presents tweets based simply on timeliness, Bing is experimenting with new solutions such as "best match." We hope more working relationships with organizations in the search business will mean even more variety for users.  "More working relationships with organizations in the search business"? Whoever can he mean? Goo... goo.. good grief, I can't think.  Because of our open approach there are many ways to interact with Twitter, and there will be many more to come. As we work to mature our service and platform offerings, we also hope to develop meaningful relationships with companies that share our vision of creating value for everyone involved—especially users. Whether it's emerging startups, big companies, or people simply sharing information, we're establishing successful partnerships. Also, it's fun.  Certainly successful, if the suggestion being made that Microsoft is paying Twitter for this feed makes sense. (And why wouldn't it? That's potentially valuable stuff there for Microsoft.) I'd expect an announcement involving Google some time in the next month or so. Else, it might (though only might - but in Google's eyes, this will be HUGE, even if to everyone else it's a bit meh) lose market share. Microsoft has also confirmed it, in its own inimitable way, on the Bing blog:   Twitter is producing millions of tweets every minute on every subject you can imagine. The power of those tweets as a form of data that can be surfaced in search is enormous.  Oi! Biz Stone uses "mature" as a verb - that we can almost bear. But "surfaced" as a transitive verb, and not in the sense of "covering a road"? Eugh.   Were you as fascinated by the 6-year-old boy floating away in a balloon as we were? Was it a hoax? We know that people are going to twitter more and more for information surrounding all the latest chatter.   You can now search for what people are saying all over the web about breaking news topics, your favorite celebrity, hometown sports team, and anything else you use Twitter to stay on top of today.  Which basically makes it sound like a slightly more grand version of Twitter's own search - but you can bet that the Bing team have a much more ambitious scheme on the way. For once, Google is playing catch-up to Microsoft's search effort. Who would have guessed that it would be a tiny unprofitable startup that would be the wedge between the two of them?Update: Thanks to a Marissa Mayer tweet, we now know that Biz Stone was being carefully roundabout. Google is going to be indexing tweets as well. So that's status quo ante in the search engine world - but Twitter is very much status rex.