A selection of 10 apps for you today: Stamped Stamped is the latest iPhone app that wants to get people rating places and media, although instead of a five-star ratings system, it simply asks you to assign stamps of approval to the things you like: restaurants, music, books, films and other locations.iPhone CityVille Holidaytown Social games publisher Zynga has launched a new version of its CityVille iOS app with a festive theme. The mechanics remain the same, but the town you're building is now Santa's winter wonderland at the North Pole. Expect elves a-plenty. Players can unlock special items for use in the existing CityVille Hometown iOS game too.iPhone / iPad Google Search Not a new app, as such, but a big enough update to justify its inclusion in Apps Rush. Google's search app has been revamped for iPad, including Google Instant results, and a slide-in pane for websites found through them, viewed alongside the search results. There's a new image carousel, and instant previews of sites before you tap to visit them. But the app also provides access to the web versions of all Google's services, from Gmail and Calendar to Reader and Google Docs.iPad Secure Pass Barclays Bank's new Windows Phone app doesn't overdo things when it comes to its Windows Marketplace description: "Secure Pass is a one-time passcode generation application". Basic, but potentially useful.Windows Phone Wolfram Flight Information Reference App Wolfram Alpha's latest iOS app is all about the skies: and specifically the planes that fly in them. It's a handheld way to look up flight times and details, a wealth of other stats, and a show-off feature to see what planes are overhead right now.iPhone / iPad Moneysupermarket.com Car Insurance Website MoneySupermarket has launched a free car insurance app for iPhone, helping people compare prices from various providers on their device, before tapping to call whichever one they choose.iPhone Mills and Boon The world's most famous romantic fiction brand? There's an app for that, showcasing the latest books in the Mills and Boon series. It's available in the UK App Store, although it appears to be the work of the company's Australian division.iPhone Gigglebies: Garden Party Jelly Bridge Productions' new iPhone app started life as a desktop application used in pre-schools and nurseries. Now it's on iOS, with a range of educational tasks introducing audio memory, shape recognition, colours and sizes and other skills for children.iPhone Beyond Ynth HD Award-winning action game Beyond Ynth has made the leap to Android, offering physics-based gameplay and more than 80 levels to puzzle through.Android