European data protection watchdogs are closing in on Google, with Spain charging the software giant with six legal infringements punishable by up to €1.5m (£1.3m) in fines, while France has given it three months to rewrite its privacy policy. Google is likely to face actions from the UK, German, Italian and Dutch data watchdogs, in a co-ordinated campaign to push it into improving protection for consumers. Spain launched a sanction procedure on Thursday, accusing the company behind the Android phone software and the world's largest search engine of six counts of breaching data protection laws. The six-month process initiated by Spain's Agencia Española de Protección de Datos could result in five fines of up to €300,000 each and a further penalty for a more minor transgression of up to €40,000. Google collects a wide range of information on individuals, including names, photographs, email addresses, phone numbers, credit cards, websites visited, what smartphones, tablets and computers customers are using, logs of queries typed into its search engine, phone numbers called, time, date and duration of calls, and customer locations. Spain is concerned consumers were not told clearly how Google planned to use their personal information before it was shared. It objects to the combining of personal information from one service, such as email, with that from another, such as search queries. It is concerned Google is collecting disproportionate amounts of data, and holding on to it for longer than needed. And it says Google does not make it easy enough for an individual to correct, delete or access their private information. On the same day, France's Commission Nationale de l'Informatique et des Libertés (CNIL) gave Google formal notice that it risks a fine of up to €150,000 and a second of €300,000 if it fails to rewrite its privacy policy within three months. The CNIL has similar concerns to its Spanish counterpart and has requested a series of changes. It wants Google to give customers "defined and explicit purposes" for gathering their personal data, so that individuals know how their information will be used before deciding whether to share it. France wants "definite retention periods" for data. Users should be informed before the 'cookies' which track their browsing are stored on their computer. And Google should not be allowed, without legal basis, to combine data supplied for different products and services. "This case is a significant test of how strong the laws are to protect our privacy in an internet age," said Nick Pickles, director of privacy campaign Big Brother Watch. "Fines totalling a few million dollars will hardly trouble a multi-billion dollar empire and it's essential that action does force the company to respect our privacy and put users rights before the demands of its advertising customers." Jeff Gould, president of public sector computing group SafeGov, said: "We remain concerned that non-consumer users of Google's services, such as employees, civil servants, patients or schoolchildren, who aren't able to individually consent to or opt-out of data processing practices, remain at risk of intrusive online tracking." The UK Information Commissioner's Office is considering whether Google's privacy policy, updated last July, is compliant with the UK Data Protection Act, and will shortly be writing to Google to confirm their preliminary findings. A Google spokesman said: "Our privacy policy respects European law and allows us to create simpler, more effective services. We have engaged fully with the authorities involved throughout this process, and we'll continue to do so going forward." Watchdogs are keeping a wary eye on Google Glass. On Wednesday, 37 data protection agencies sent a joint letter to Google's chief executive, Larry Page, raising concerns about the digital spectacles. "Fears of ubiquitous surveillance of individuals by other individuals, whether through such recordings or through other applications currently being developed, have been raised," the letter stated. "Questions about Google's collection of such data and what it means in terms of Google's revamped privacy policy have also started to appear." The signatories, who include data protection agencies from Canada, Australia, Israel, Switzerland and New Zealand, want privacy built into the development of products and services, and have requested demonstrations and full consultation with Google before Glass goes on sale.