YouTube has a massive audience of children watching videos already, even if they’re not (in theory) allowed to sign up for an account. You can tell this by the view counts for channels like toy-unboxing fest DC Toys Collector, which with 400 million views in October was the most popular YouTube channel in the world – bigger even than PewDiePie. Then there’s the popularity of Minecraft-focused channels like Stampy (183m views in October) and The Diamond Minecart (155m) and nursery-rhyme channels like Little Baby Bum (189.3m). Games/comedy channel Rooster Teeth has even launched a spin-off just for children called Game Kids. One problem I’ve found when my children are watching YouTube logged in on my account is the risk of inappropriate ads – a BetFair gambling ad as a pre-roll to a Stampy video recently, for example – which is because those ads are being targeted to me (an adult) even when my account is playing videos that are obviously for children. Google may have a solution in store: dedicated versions of YouTube and other services like search and Chrome for children. USA Today reports that the company is working on the idea for 2015: “The big motivator inside the company is everyone is having kids, so there’s a push to change our products to be fun and safe for children,” says vice president of engineering Pavni Diwanji. “We want to be thoughtful about what we do, giving parents the right tools to oversee their kids’ use of our products. We want kids to be safe, but ultimately it’s about helping them be more than just pure consumers of tech, but creators, too.” This is a controversy in waiting: expect lots of questions about how Google plans to collect data on children using the new versions of its services (or rather, how it plans to NOT collect data on them); how advertising will work; and what kind of controls there’ll be to screen out inappropriate content. Yet in some ways, this is an essential move for Google, on YouTube in particular, because kids are watching it in droves – more than 2.2m in the UK alone in 2013, watching an average of just over four hours a month, according to UK communications regulator Ofcom. Google can’t pretend this trend doesn’t exist, and many parents will appreciate extra safeguards, but the company may have work to do in convincing sceptics that it really does have children’s privacy at the front of its mind. What do you think though? The comments section is open for your views. Other stories that may be worth talking about today: Google unveils ‘No CAPTCHA reCAPTCHA’ Google thinks it has a better alternative to the CAPTCHA widgets used to prove to websites that you’re human, not a spambot. “It’s much easier to tap photos of cats or turkeys than to tediously type a line of distorted text on your phone...” Did Apple delete music from people’s iPods? A lawsuit against Apple over iTunes DRM back in the day got underway this week, and there’s already some surprising testimony: the claim that the company deliberately deleted music from rival digital services from customers’ iPods. Ghostery’s privacy-focused Android browser Ad-tech company Ghostery has launched a mobile version of its browser plugin that helps people detect and block individual cookies tracking their activity. But wait: ad-tech firm? Yes, the company itself does collect and use some data, if allowed. New data on streaming media devices in the US Research firm Parks Associates claims 10% of US broadband households have bought a “streaming media player or stick” in 2014. 29% of those purchases were Roku boxes, 20% Chromecast dongles and 17% Apple TV boxes. How Jimmy Iovine persuaded Apple to buy Beats “’I know you guys; I know what you’re capable of; I know you get popular culture. I know you have a hole in music right now; let me plug it.’ I think it was two years before they said yeah... After Steve died, and with the rise of streaming, I could see they needed something. Beats Music fit.” What else? The comments section is open for your suggestions, as well as your thoughts on the stories above.