Tweets will start appear in Google search results in real time later this year after a deal to make them more searchable online. Twitter has struck a deal with Google to make tweets visible as soon as they are posted, Bloomberg reported. The microblogging company had a similar arrangement with the search company in 2009, but the arrangement lapsed two years later. Google then had to crawl Twitter’s site, which takes more time, but the new deal means that the musings of Twitter’s 284m users will appear as soon as they are posted.  The data will come from an automatic data feed that Google is expected to pay Twitter an undisclosed sum for. Tweets are already visible in Yahoo and Bing search results. Neither Twitter or Google were available to comment.   Related: Twitter CEO: We suck at dealing with trolls and abuse    Promoted tweets Gartner analyst Annette Jump said: “The deal will make tweets more searchable and should help to increase engagement and usage for Twitter. For Google this announcement will allow users to provide more real-time information about consumers/companies do/promote/discuss online.”  It is one way that Twitter is seeking to increasing growth, which has slowed in recent months. This week Twitter announced a deal with news-sharing app Flipboard and Yahoo Japan to syndicate its paid-for “promoted tweets” to Twitter feeds on their platforms.  Exposing its advertising to a wider audience could significantly boost revenue for Twitter. It made just $1.13 in advertising revenue per active user in the third quarter, compared with Facebook’s $2.22. The company announces its fourth quarter results later on Thursday. Twitter shares rose as high as $70 in the weeks after floating in New York in November 2013, but then sank as low as $40 in May last year.  The stock was trading on Thursday at $42.35 - only slightly above the float price, valuing the company at $26bn (£17bn). In contrast, Facebook shares had a rocky start after their May 2012 debut but have subsequently soared to be almost 100% higher as the number of members hit 1.35bn. It has made the tricky transition from a service used primarily on a desktop browser to one used on mobile devices.  Twitter added 13 million monthly active users - a rise of 4.8% - between the second and third quarters in 2014, but the pace was slower than the 6.2% increase posted from the first to the second quarter.   Related: Twitter struggles to match growth hopes as mobile powers Facebook surge  