Google has refused to answer questions on its secret trial of removing news sites from search results in Australia, with the treasurer, Josh Frydenberg, saying the company should focus on paying for news, not blocking it. Google blindsided news consumers and media outlets this week with a trial that removed Australian media outlets such as the ABC, Nine, the Guardian and others from its search results. Users were not informed of the change, or advised how to find news articles when searching, with some reporting they initially believed it was an issue only affecting them. People affected by the trial can get around the block by searching in a private browser window, such as in incognito mode in Google Chrome.   Related: Google's 'experiment' hiding Australian news just shows its inordinate power | Belinda Barnet    The move by Google came as a Senate committee is reviewing legislation that would force Google and Facebook to negotiate with Australian news media companies for a fair price for displaying local news content. Google has argued strongly against the code since it was first announced last year, by alerting users to the proposed changes in search and in Google Chrome. Guardian Australia put a list of questions to Google, which the company has refused to answer. Here is what we know, based on anecdotal reports from people affected and previous statements the company issued. How long was the trial running for? We don’t know for sure but this particular trial appears to have been running this week. How many news outlets were affected? According to reports, outlets affected include the Guardian, the Australian, the ABC, the Australian Financial Review, the Age and the Sydney Morning Herald at least. Searches for content from these websites served up links to other websites. Google has refused to provide a comprehensive list of which news outlets were affected. What is the total number of users (not expressed as a percentage) in Australia who were unable to find news in search results? A Google spokesman said on Wednesday night that the company was “running a few experiments that will each reach about 1% of Google Search users in Australia to measure the impacts of news businesses and Google Search on each other”. Is Google planning to alert users affected about their involvement in the trial? Google has not provided a response to this question but no person affected to whom Guardian Australia spoke was informed they were part of the trial. What was the purpose of the trial? A Google spokesman previously said it was one of tens of thousands of such trials the company has run on search results in the past year but gave no further details. We have no further information on the next five questions put to Google by Guardian Australia, which include:  Is this the only trial of its sort Google has run since the news media bargaining code was announced? If not, what other trials has Google undertaken? Are any more trials planned? Did Google inform the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission or the government about its plans to trial this as part of the negotiations for the news bargaining code? Why weren’t news outlets informed about the trial in advance?  The communications minister, Paul Fletcher, said the action highlighted issues with the market power of tech companies. “This conduct by Google … I think goes very much to the kind of market power issues which this news media bargaining code is designed to deal with, and I think underlines the public policy importance of the government engaging on this,” he told ABC RN on Thursday. Frydenberg said on Thursday tech giants should pay for news content. “The digital giants should focus on paying for original content not blocking it. That’s my message to those digital giants,” the treasurer said. While it is not unusual for Google to not answer specific questions, the company has not yet issued any additional statement on the trial. If Google were to implement such a wide-ranging ban under the proposed code, it could be in violation of the code, and could face fines of up to $10m. The code would require Google not to differentiate between news businesses signed up to the code and those not, as a means of avoiding entering into negotiations with the news outlets signed up to the code. So unless all news was removed from search results entirely, Google would likely be in violation of the code.